Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			British actor Rowan Atkinson, best known as 'Mr. Bean,' has died.					
Another celebrity death hoax reared its head in July 2016, then again in March 2017, as posts circulated on Facebook sharing the news that British actor and comedian Rowan Atkinson, best known for playing the character Mr. Bean on television and in movies, was dead, having committed suicide or died in a traffic accident at age 58:


Clue #1 that the information is false: In the viral graphic, Atkinson’s birth year is given as 1995. If true, that would put him in his twenties.
Clue #2 that the information is false: In the viral graphic, Atkinson’s age is given as 58. In reality, he’s 62 (as of 2017), having been born in 1955.
Clue #3 that the information is false: Nowhere, in any legitimate media, has it been reported that Rowan Atkinson passed away.  In fact, Atkinson recently announced that he was about to become a father again at age 62:

Rowan Atkinson, the Blackadder and Mr Bean actor, is to become a father again at the age of 62, it has been reported.
The star, who has two grown up children from his first marriage, is expecting his first child with actress Louise Ford, who is 29-years his junior.
The couple have been together for three years and are said to be delighted and excited about the news.

The errors and inconsistencies in the hoax reports of his death are attributable to the fact that a virtually identical hoax has circulated before and has been repurposed, with little or no attention to detail, in 2016 and thereafter.
The most important thing to know about it is that the hoax is also a “clickjacking” scam. If you click on the blurb expecting to see a video or get more information, what you will find instead is that you have been redirected to another website that will attempt to get you to share your personal info, request access to your Facebook account, demand that you fill out a survey before proceeding, or all of the above.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Featured Image:magicinfoto / Shutterstock.com
Published:15 July 2016
Updated:13 November 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

