Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows Barack Obama sitting with Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr.					
A photograph purportedly showing President Obama sitting with two icons of the 1950-60s era, activists  Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X, has been circulating online for several years:

Of course, anyone with a basic grasp of American history would not for a moment think that this image could be anything other than an idealized product of someone’s imagination, because it is chronologically impossible for an adult Barack Obama to have met or posed with these two men, who both died when he was a mere child.  
Barack Obama was born on 4 August 1961, but Malcolm X was assassinated on 21 February 1965 (when Obama was but three years old) and Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated on 4 April 1968 (when Obama was only six years old)  
Nonetheless, for completeness’ sake, we tracked down the source photographs used to create this composite image.
Photojournalist Marison S. Trikosko took the photograph of Malcolm X, which was first published on 26 March 1964:

Yoichi Okamoto, the first official U.S. presidential photographer, snapped the photograph of King on 18 March 1964. The original shows the civil rights leader with President  Lyndon Johnson in the Cabinet Room of the White House:

Photographer James Ball captured the image of Barack Obama on the campaign trail in January 2008. Ball captioned the picture as follows:
The senator was clearly sleep-deprived today, but still in good spirits. I saw him lean on his hands and slouch forward a little more than usual.
The campaign trail is a hard life.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:7 March 2017
Cherlise, Renata.   “Remembering Dr. King’s impact on Chicago on the anniversary of His Assassination.”
    Chicago Reader.   4 April 2016.
Worland, Justin.   “On 50th Anniversary of Assassination, Malcolm X’s Legacy Continues to Evolve.”
    Time.   20 February 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

