Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A "child-like" painting by Joan Miro sold for $37 million.					
An image of a painting by Joan Miro is frequently circulated on social media along with two claims: That it sold for $37 million, and that the painting could have been created by a kindergartner:

This painting really was executed by Spanish artist Joan Miro, and in 2012 it sold at a Sotheby’s auction for 23.56 million pounds (approximately $37 million).
Equating this painting, entitled “Peinture (Etoile Bleue),” with the work of a kindergartner and implying that it was vastly overpriced (or that kindergarten drawings are severely under-valued) is problematic.
There are numerous factors that determine the value of a piece of art, such as the reputation of the artist, the significance of the painting, and the rarity of the work. In this case, the painting was created by a world-renowned artist (and not a toddler). The work was also created relatively early in Miro’s career and marked a “key” turning point in his style:
The picture, described by Miro (1893-1983) as a “key” turning point in his artistic career, incorporates surrealist symbols and elements that the painter would repeat in later works.
The intense blue of the painting influenced not only the artist’s later works, but also the style of other painters like Mark Rothko (1903-1970) and Yves Klein (1928-1962).
While the above-displayed painting may look like a kindergarden drawing to some, it was created by a famous artist, marked a significant turning point in his career, and ultimately influenced the styles of several other artists.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
$37 million
joan miro
miro
+1 more
miro painting


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:23 December 2016
Ng, David.   “Miro Painting Sells for Record $37 Million.”
    La Times.   20 June 2012.
Latin America Herald Tribune.   “Miro Painting Sells for Record $37 Million.”
    June 2012.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

