Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			On 19 December 2016 an amateur photographer snapped pictures of snow on the ground of the Algerian city of Ain Sefra, which borders the Sahara desert.					
On 19 December 2016, amateur photographer Karim Bouchetata posted an album to Facebook of images capturing snow in the Algerian town of Ain Sefra, located in the hills just bordering the Sahara desert, and several online news outlets published the stunning photographs.
According to Gizmodo, the last significant snowfall occurred in that area in February 1979:
The last major snowfall — if it can be called that — to hit Ain Sefra was in February 1979 when it snowed for a whopping 30 minutes. Subsequent dustings of snow also appeared in 2005 and 2012.
Some viewers expressed skepticism about the authenticity of the photographs or the likelihood that a town located just next to the Sahara flatlands would see any snow in the first place. The fact that it snowed in Ain Sefra on December 19th can be confirmed, however, via NASA satellite data that shows pockets of snow in the region:
While snowfall is indeed a rare occurrence in Ain Sefra, the temperatures that led to air cool enough to produce snow are not all that rare. Historical data from the region show that December and January temperatures often dip into the 30s.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Alex Kasprak

Featured Image:Jacques Descloitres, MODIS Rapid Response Team, NASA/GSFC
Published:21 December 2016
Dvorsky, George.   “Photos of Freak Snowfall in the Sahara Look Unreal.”
    Gizmodo.   12 December 2016.
worldview.earthdata.nasa.gov   “NASA Worldview.”
wolframalpha.com   input: “ain sefra weather 1976 to present” via Wolfram Alpha Knowledgebase, 2017.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

