Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump sent a tweet with the word "unprecedented" incorrectly spelled "unpresidented."					
At 4:30 in the morning on 17 December 2016, President-elect Donald Trump took to Twitter to call China’s seizure of a United States drone an “unprecedented” act. Trump, however (or someone posting on his behalf), made an unfortunate typo and instead called the incident “unpresidented“:
The tweet was deleted within a few hours and replaced with a message that correctly spelled the word “unprecedented”:
China steals United States Navy research drone in international waters – rips it out of water and takes it to China in unprecedented act.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 17, 2016

While many Twitter users shared captured screenshots of the “unpresidented” tweet, other viewers were skeptical that it was real. After all, several fake Trump tweets had previously been created and spread as genuine.
In this instance, however, the viral tweet was real.
Trump’s “unpresidented” tweet was retweeted by thousands of people before it was deleted. While the URL currently leads to a page that reads “Sorry, that page does not exist!,” a cached version of the message is still available via Google. The tweet was also archived via archive.is:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
tweet
twitter
+2 more
unprecedented
unpresidented


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:17 December 2016
Starr, Barbara.   “Pentagon demands China return US underwater drone.”
    CNN.   17 December 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

