Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph depicts a Salvation Army bellringer holding a sign stating the group helps people, "just not the gays."					
In December 2016, two Facebook pages shared a photograph of what appeared to be a Salvation Army bell ringer holding a sign that read, “We help people, just not the gays”:

One post was captioned that the sign was “something to remember this holiday season,” while another said “Just a friendly reminder that ‘the gays’ aren’t people. Brought to you by your local Salvation Army.”
Neither post included information about the photograph, such as its subject, the date on which it was taken, or any other details enabling readers to put the image in context.  As a result, some people interpreted the photograph to be that of an actual Salvation Army volunteer announcing the organization’s views on its placard.
The image dated back to at least 2012, as evidenced by a blog post and Imgur page; the latter linked to a Reddit thread and captioned: “Next to a Salvation Army sign in Union Square, NYC.” All versions suggest that the photograph was taken in or before December 2012, and early versions universally identified the man with the sign as a protester of the Salvation Army, not a volunteer.
Later in 2012, descriptions of the photograph shifted to assertions that the sign’s holder was not a protester and was actually a bell ringer:

The Salvation Army’s web site details a “no discrimination” policy for LGBT individuals.
Although the origin of the image is still unknown, the scene it showed was originally presented as a protest and not a Salvation Army initiative. Nevertheless, we contacted the organization for further information about the photograph but did not receive a reply.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
inaccurate viral photos
lgbt
miscaptioned
+1 more
salvation army


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:16 December 2016
Salvation Army.   “The Salvation Army and the LGBT Community.”
    Accessed 16 December 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

