Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography.					
On 4 March 2017, several dubious news outlets reported that a Japanese man was killed when a six-ton pile of porn he had amassed in his apartment fell and crushed him.
While it is true that a Japanese man died in his apartment amidst tons of pornography, the Japanese news website Nikkan Spa!, originally reported that he actually died of a heart attack. Further, despite reports that the man was not found for six months after his death, the Nikkan-Spa! simply reported that the unidentified man’s body was found a month later. 
Gruesomely, the story notes that the pornography soaked up his “body fluids,” which would normally cause an odor and alert neighbors of his death. “Although it is nightmare talk, this is reality,” the article says.
The phenomenon of solitary deaths, or kodokushi, has been a concern in Japan since at least 2005: 
According to the Japan Quality of Life Survey, conducted in 2013 by the Japanese government’s Economic and Social Research Institute, 32% of respondents reported that they were somewhat or very concerned about dying alone. According to our own analysis of the data, the worries are negatively correlated with subjective well-being. Worries about solitary death show one of the highest negative correlations with happiness.
Japanese national broadcasting company NHK tied the phenomenon to a society without bonds, where people have lost their connection to family, neighbors, and colleagues.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Megan Alpert

Featured Image:red mango / Shutterstock.com
Published:6 March 2017
nikkan-spa.jp.
   “A Lonely Death Surrounded by a Large Amount of Erotic Books.”  28 February 2017.
Kohlbacher, Florian and Tiefenbach, Tim.  “The Rise of Solitary Deaths.”
     British Chamber of Commerce in Japan.    May 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

