Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			McDonald's has a burger filled with Nutella.							See Example( s )

In November 2016, the fast food giant McDonald’s introduced a pastry called the “Sweety con Nutella,” which is essentially two buns filled with the hazelnut-cocoa filling, Nutella.
The dessert, however, is only available in Italy, as Nutella is a popular spread primarily in Europe. While (perhaps thankfully) there is no meat in the item, not everyone was impressed, with food blog Eater calling it “ungodly”:
Because nothing in this world is sacred — especially not fast food — McDonald’s unleashed its latest unholy experiment in processed calorie engineering on Italy this week. This time instead of drizzling carbohydrates with milk chocolate, the fast food giant is piping sliced bread full of chocolate-hazelnut spread to create what is essentially a Nutella “burger.”
Only Italians can order this creation, at least for now. The item is not available in the United States. To put the “burger” in context, McDonald’s has other country-specific menu items for Italian customers (and the fast food chain tailors its menus to every country it’s in), including espresso and filled croissants.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
fast food rumors
food
italy
+1 more
mcdonald's


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:McDonald's Italy
Published:13 December 2016
Houck, Brenna. “McDonald’s Unleashes Ungodly Nutella-Slathered Burger on Italy.”
  Eater. 12 November 2016.
Bowerman, Mary. “Yup, McDonald’s Created a Nutella ‘Burger.'”
  USA Today. 14 November 2016.
Fox News. “People Want to Move Overseas for McDonald’s Italy Nutella Burger.”
  14 November 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

