Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A couple determined their tip to a waitress by dangling five $1 bills at the table.							See Example( s )

An unidentified eater’s alleged account of a cruel way to get better service has been gaining traction online.
The meme is based around a purported screenshot of five $1 bills on a table, with a knife holding them together, and if the server does something the patron does not like, the patron ostentatiously takes one of the bills away. The money, the poster explains, is meant to goad the server into providing “better service.” (There is no name listed alongside the image.)
Despite this, a Facebook thread highlighting the meme has been shared 7,891 times since being posted on 6 December 2016; the picture was also highlighted in a Reddit thread for “cheap bastards.”
Popular food blogger Darron Cardosa (a.k.a. The Bitchy Waiter) also broke down why he felt the boastful eater was “the biggest asshole on the Internet” (emphasis his):
“So I took the wife out to dinner last night, and we have always talked about doing this.” When most people talk about the things they have always wanted to do, they are thinking exotic trips to foreign lands, buying a second home or going skydiving. Not this couple, though. They dream of toying with the financial well-being of waitress who is just hoping she will get a fucking 20% tip from her asshole customer.
“You put 5 singles out on the table at the beginning of dinner for the waiter/waitress to see. (Don’t say anything to them).” If I had a customer do that, I wouldn’t think twice about them not saying anything to me about why there was money on the table. And what if we don’t see it? Are you going to wave those five bills in our face and then place them back on the table just to make sure I’m paying attention to them? You’re an ass.
It should be noted, though, that the stunt described in the meme is not without precedent. It is identical to the opening scene from the Cheers episode “Rebecca Redux,” in which a mouthy customer tells Carla (Rhea Perlman):
Do you see this roll of dollar bills here? This is your tip. I’ve set it aside in advance.
Now here’s the deal. Every time you do something wrong, I take a dollar bill, see? That way, I get decent service. Understood?
Carla responds with her own proposal: that every time he does that, she gets to flick beer in his face. Eventually, she dumps the whole drink on him. 
Another NBC show, 3rd Rock from the Sun, had a variant on that scene in the episode “Sex and the Sally” when Dick (John Lithgow) “reinvents tipping” by placing a stack of bills on the table and telling his waitress:
This pile of $1 dollar bills represents your potential tip. Every time you please me you’ll see the pile grow. However, if I am unsatisfied — if you’re slow, mouthy, or sneeze into your hands — you’ll notice the pile shrinking. Agreed? Good luck!
The Facebook user who garnered the large response to the image told us that it had originated in a Florida restaurant’s private Facebook group, and is based on a user’s sibling’s actual “experiment” while dining out. We reached out to the person who posted the image seeking comment.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Alexey Rotanov / Shutterstock.com
Published:9 December 2016
“Dick Learns Tipping.” Uploaded by Bakhtiar, Hooman. YouTube. 5 April 2014.
Cardosa, Darron. “I Just Found the Biggest A**hole on the Internet.” The Bitchy Waiter. 9 December 2016.  
Esoteric_enigma [upload]. “Cheap bastards of Reddit, what is something you see other cheap bastards do that is just too cheap/unclassy for even you?.” Reddit. December 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

