Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Kentucky Fried Chicken created a candle that smells just like its signature dish.							See Example( s )

What better way to light up your nights than with a limited edition KFC Scented Candle! Keen? To go in the draw to #win one just suggest another piece of KFC merchandise you'd like to see from us in the comments below! Winners drawn Monday! #KFCAdventCalendar
A photo posted by KFCNZ (@kfcnz) on Dec 1, 2016 at 6:32pm PST
It’s the kind of story you’d think was fake, but this time it’s more fowl than foul.
As bird-brained as it might seem, KFC New Zealand did indeed announce on 1 December 2016 that it was giving away a “KFC Scented Candle.” Fans of the fast food chain’s social media accounts entered the draw by suggesting their own merchandising ideas for the Kentucky-based company.
The company credited KFC New Zealand’s digital marketing director, Emma Ye, with the concept, with U.S. marketing director Clark Wilson saying the response was “overwhelming”:
We’ve already been approached by people willing to pay over NZ$100 for a KFC Candle. We’ve got no intention to commercially produce the candles, but given their popularity, Enna may have to go into full time production.
Just three candles were given away during the special offer, on 5 December 2016. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Wikimedia Commons
Published:7 December 2016
Yahoo New Zealand. “KFC releases scented candle for people who want their home to smell of fried chicken.” nz.news.yahoo.com. 6 December 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

