Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Morton County Sheriff Kyle Kirchmeier published pro-Dakota Access Pipeline and anti-Native American content via Twitter.							See Example( s )

In November 2016, the Twitter account @KyleKirchmeier appeared, purporting to belong to the sheriff of Morton County, North Dakota (site of the proposed Dakota Access pipeline and the ensuing protests) and publishing clearly offensive content:
First of all, the Bundy’s are white. Secondly, they had guns. You can’t expect unarmed brown people to be treated the same. #thisisamerica https://t.co/9Ksuc7TGPT
— Sheriff Kirchmeier (@KyleKirchmeier) November 28, 2016
Nazi concentration camps were INSPIRED by North Dakota Indian laws and reservation systems. #fact #lookitup #TrueLeadership https://t.co/aLkj2gF2iu
— Sheriff Kirchmeier (@KyleKirchmeier) November 29, 2016
@Y0ssarian11 if Indians take their land and resources back, they could pose a serious threat to current American culture and leadership. — Sheriff Kirchmeier (@KyleKirchmeier) December 7, 2016
A significant portion of the account’s activity involved engagement with other Twitter users, many of whom were not aware the @KyleKirchmeier account was illegitimate. However, on 6 December 2016, the official @MortonCountySD confirmed that the account is phony: 
“The twitter account @KyleKirchmeier is fake. We are working to get it taken down.” The blue checkmark is a sign that this is the true acct. — MortonCountySheriff (@MortonCountySD) December 7, 2016

In the tweet, the Morton County Sheriff’s Department indicated it was not aware who was behind the parody @KyleKirchmeier account. However, the Department said that it was working with Twitter to remove the parody account.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
dakota access pipeline
dapl
dapl rumors
+3 more
morton county
north dakota
twitter


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:7 December 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

