Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A gruesome image depicts children kidnapped and killed by organ traffickers in Thailand.							See Example( s )

On 16 November 2016, social media status updates claimed that police had discovered child victims of organ trafficking in Thailand, complete with a disturbing photograph: 
Thailand police found this in a container vehicle. Dead bodies of children. Their organs where found removed. They are all kidnapped and brought to Thailand from different countries, police says.
Take care of your children and share this message to your contacts.
The Facebook post was one example of like-farming, urging social media users to spread messages to their contacts. Although the image is real, the explanation attached to it is false and exploitative: Once again, genuine images of children killed in chemical attacks in Ghouta, Syria were repurposed on social media with a false back story to drive engagement and sharing or advance a narrative.
This particular photograph shows the widely-documented August 2013 gas attack in Syria. It had no connection to Thailand, organ harvesting, child trafficking, or any tragedy other than that particular incident.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
chemical attack
ghouta
like farming
+1 more
Syria


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:6 December 2016
Brainard, Cecilia Manguerra.   “Assad Used Chemical Warfare In Syria – 1,300 Dead In Ghouta.”
    Travels (And More) With Cecilia Brainard.   22 August 2013.
Groves, Jason et. al.   “U.S. Marches Closer To Strikes On Syria: John Kerry Delivers Damning Statement Demanding ‘Accountability’ For ‘Undeniable’ Chemical Gas Attack.”
    Daily Mail.   27 August 2013.
Phillips, Rhodri.   “Million Kids Flee Hell In Syria As 7,000 Die.”
    The Irish Sun.   22 August 2013.
New York Post.   “Syrian Rebels Claim More Than 500, Including Dozens Of Kids, Dead In Chemical Weapons Attack; Obama Calls For UN Probe.”
    21 August 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

