Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Despite an agreement with President-elect Donald Trump to keep 1,000 manufacturing jobs in the U.S., Carrier Corporation says it will still relocate hundreds of jobs to Mexico.							See Example( s )

President-elect Donald Trump took a step toward making good on an oft-made 2016 campaign promise by negotiating a deal with Carrier Corporation and its parent company, United Technologies, to keep most of the 1,400 manufacturing jobs slated for relocation to Mexico at home at its furnace manufacturing plant in Indianapolis. The company tweeted on 29 November 2016 that, thanks to the deal, approximately 1,000 U.S. jobs would be retained:
We are pleased to have reached a deal with President-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy. More details soon.
— Carrier (@Carrier) November 30, 2016
In his own announcement on 1 December, the President-elect upped that projection to more than 1,100 jobs saved:
But I will tell you that United Technologies and Carrier stepped it up and now they’re keeping — actually the number’s over 1,100 people, which is so great, which is so great.
A hint that the stated numbers might be a bit on the hyperbolic side emerged in a letter distributed to employees of the Indianapolis factory on 1 December 2016, however:
Breaking: Carrier confirms in letter to workers that fan coil jobs will “relocate” to Mexico by end of 2017. @rtv6@IndyThisWeekpic.twitter.com/pcHo5ZPuh4 — Rafael Sánchez (@RafaelOnTV) December 2, 2016
While confirming that more than 1,000 jobs would be “preserved” at the plant, the letter went on to say that an unspecified number of jobs were still slated for relocation to Mexico:
While this announcement, is good news for many, we recognize it is not good news for everyone. We are moving forward with previously announced plans to relocate the fan coil manufacturing lines, with expected completion by the end of 2017. Impacted employees who are interested in relocation will be able to apply and be considered for job opportunities at other United Technologies U.S. locations, which could include relocation assistance. In addition, impacted employees will be able to receive up to four full years of the Employee Scholar Program post-employment, which pays for education to develop new skills in a field of their choice.
We contacted United Technologies Corporation, who verified that the letter is authentic and said that some 600 factory workers will be affected by the portion of the relocation plan still going forward. Moreover, we learned, the stated total of 1,000-plus jobs to be retained at the U.S. Carrier plant included 300 administrative and engineering positions that were never slated for relocation in the first place. The actual number of factory jobs saved as a result of the Trump deal, therefore, is 800. The company also informed us that the planned relocation of 700 jobs from United Technologies’ Huntington, Indiana plant to Mexico will move forward as well, making the combined number of jobs Carrier and its parent company still plan on relocating 1,300.
 
Indiana taxpayers will end up helping defray the cost of the Carrier deal. In return for agreeing to keep 800 jobs in Indianapolis and invest $16 million in its Indiana factories, United Technologies will receive $7 million in tax credits over the next 10 years from the state of Indiana, of which Vice President-elect Mike Pence is governor. 
 
News that negotiations had taken place between Donald Trump and Carrier to keep jobs in the United States was soon followed by claims (fueled in part by Sarah Palin’s dismissal of the deal in an editorial as “crony capitalism”) that the President-elect either owned or was a shareholder in the company or parent United Technologies. However, Trump’s 2016 Personal Financial Disclosure [PFD] did not reflect any such investments, and Trump’s transition team has vowed that any holdings that represented potential conflicts of interest would be transferred before his January 2017 inauguration. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
american jobs
carrier
donald trump
+2 more
manufacturing
president-elect trump


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:5 December 2016
Updated:6 December 2016
Briggs, James, Schneider, Chelsea and Cook, Tony.    “Donald Trump’s Deal with Carrier Could Save 1,000 Jobs in Indianapolis.”
   IndyStar.   30 November 2016.
Mann, Ted.   “Carrier Will Receive $7 Million in Tax Breaks to Keep Jobs in Indiana.”
   The Wall Street Journal.   2 December 2016.
Schwartz, Nelson D.   “Trump Sealed Carrier Deal with Mix of Threat and Incentive.”
   The New York Times.   1 December 2016.
Tankersley, Jim, Paquette, Danielle and Eherenfreund, Max.   “After Trump Pledged to Keep Carrier Jobs in U.S., Company Says It Won’t Move Nearly 1,000 to Mexico.”
   The Washington Post.   29 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

