Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump canceled various White House measures accommodating Islamic prayers in the building, upsetting President Obama.							See Example( s )

 On 2 December 2016, a “satirical” site — which contains a disclaimer buried deep on its “About Us” page — posted a hoax story (“Obama Crushed After Trump Orders White House to Stop His Sickest Tradition”) that reported outgoing United States President Barack Obama was seen storming out of the White House because of the cancellation of one of his most “secretive rituals.” 
According to the article, Obama secretly ordered White House staff to order silence in the building during the five daily Muslim prayers, collectively known as the Salat or Salah. The story also accuses Obama of making prayer rugs available in order to make Muslims more comfortable. However, it says, President-elect Donald Trump put a stop to the practice and ordered “all pagan symbols” to be removed from the property:
Obama was seen storming away from the West Wing after staffers from Donald Trump’s transition team began preparing the Executive offices for the new administration. On Trump’s orders, one of Obama’s most secretive rituals is being reversed and all signs of it removed from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
To further its spurious claim, this story features a photo of Muslim men in prayer, suggesting that it was taken as part of this “secret” ritual. The picture was taken at the White House — by attorney Qasim Rashid — but the prayer was actually part of a special event in July 2016:
Re-sharing historic picture of Imam Azhar Haneef of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community leading prayer in White House pic.twitter.com/QPEKJ7tvyR
— Qasim Rashid, Esq. (@MuslimIQ) July 23, 2016

The allegation about the prayer rug is similar to a thoroughly debunked claim that Obama had a “Muslim prayer curtain” put in the White House. Obama has also been (falsely) accused of “enforcing” Islamic prayers on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, and cancelling the National Day of Prayer.
The site presents itself as a conservative-oriented news site, failing to mention its hard-to-find disclaimer:
The Resistance may include information from sources that may or may not be reliable and facts that don’t necessarily exist. All articles should be considered satirical and any and all quotes attributed to actual people complete and total baloney.
The site also falsely claims that comedian Rosie O’Donnell was detained by the Secret Service for threatening Trump on Twitter, and that Obama “banned” Baby Jesus” from the White House.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
barack obama
donald trump
islam
+2 more
the last line of defense
white house


Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:a katz / Shutterstock.com
Published:5 December 2016
BBC. “Salat: daily prayers.” bbc.co.uk. 08 September 2009.
@MuslimIQ. “Re-sharing historic picture of Imam Azhar Haneef of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community leading prayer in White House.” Twitter. 23 July 2016. 
News desk. “Ahmadi man gives call to prayer at White House.” The Express Tribune. 22 July 2016. 
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

