Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows a 50-foot-long giant squid that washed up on a beach in New Zealand in 2015.					
A video purportedly showing a 50-foot-long giant squid that washed up on a beach has been around for years, but made a big splash once again on social media in November 2016:

According to the accompanying description, the squid washed up on a beach in Punakaiki, New Zealand on 1 March 2015. However, the image featured in the video is fake, and the scene was not filmed anywhere near New Zealand, but more than 7,000 miles (almost 12,000 kilometers) away.
The original image was taken in June 2012, and showed a crowd of people gathered around a humpback whale (not a squid) that had washed ashore in White Rock, British Columbia, Canada:

Armed with buckets for water and shovels for digging, the residents of White Rock streamed down to the beach early Tuesday in an attempt to help a humpback whale that had washed up on shore.
But just hours after being beached on the waterfront about 45 minutes south of Vancouver, the whale died as dozens of people looked on helplessly.
“The animal was alive but it was in just too weak and in such poor shape that we knew it had been distressed for a long time,” said Paul Cottrell, the marine mammal co-ordinator for the Department of Fisheries and Ocean.
“It had been labouring for a long time and was swimming and just got caught by the tides.” 
The photograph of the “giant squid” was created by cropping the original image and replacing the whale with a photograph of a squid. Here’s a comparison of the two images:

This is not the first time that a photograph of a beached whale has been used as a digital media backdrop for giant squid hoaxes. In January 2014, an image of whale was doctored and shared with a similar claim. However, neither story was true.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
canada
giant squid
humpback whale
+2 more
new zealand
squid


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:1 December 2016
Updated:1 December 2016
Fong, Petti.   “Beached humpback whale dies on shore near Vancouver.”
    Toronto Sun.   12 June 2012.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

