Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			In 2005, Senator Hillary Clinton co-sponsored a bill to make flag burning a punishable offense.							See Example( s )

Criminalizing flag-burning: Totally criminal when by proposed by Trump (2016) yet somehow totally cool when proposed by Hillary (2005).
On 29 November 2016, President-elect Donald Trump tweeted a controversial opinion about the criminality of flag burning, leading to secondary rumors that his former political rival, Hillary Clinton, once supported criminalizing the act of protest.
In his tweet, Trump suggested that “no one” should be permitted to burn the flag, adding that offenders ought to be punished with losing their United States citizenship or spending a year in jail. Almost as quickly as the controversy started, other rumors erupted that in 2005, then-Senator Hillary Clinton sponsored a bill making flag burning an offense punishable by one year in prison or a fine of $100,000.
That bill (S.1911, The Flag Protection Act of 2005) was co-sponsored by Clinton, and proposed in part:
Any person who shall intentionally threaten or intimidate any person or group of persons by burning, or causing to be burned, a flag of the United States shall be fined not more than $100,000, imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
The law was not passed (or considered) by Congress. A critical New York Times editorial published on 7 December 2005 provided context for the proposal:
The bill attempts to equate flag-burning with cross-burning, which the Supreme Court, in a sensible and carefully considered 2003 decision, said could be prosecuted under certain circumstances as a violation of civil rights law. It’s a ridiculous comparison. Burning a cross is a unique act because of its inextricable connection to the Ku Klux Klan and to anti-black violence and intimidation. A black American who wakes up to see a cross burning on the front lawn has every right to feel personally, and physically, threatened. Flag-burning has no such history. It has, in fact, no history of being directed against any target but the government.
As the editorial went on to explain, Clinton’s justification for sponsoring the bill was the notion that flag burning could be used to intimidate or threaten American citizens. While the bill was never passed, Trump echoed its proposed $100,000 fine (although “loss of citizenship” was not included in the 2005 legislation).
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:30 November 2016
The New York Times.   “Senator Clinton, In Pander Mode.”
    7 December 2005.
Congress.gov.   “S.1911 – Flag Protection Act Of 2005.”
    24 October 2005.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

