Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			British £5 notes introduced in 2016 contain traces of beef tallow.							See Example( s )

In late November 2016, a claim appeared that the United Kingdom’s new £5 bank notes contain beef tallow, a potential cause for concern among vegetarians and vegans who try to keep their contact with meat and meat industry byproducts to a minimum. 
The Bank of England decided to switch in 2013, and introduced the new bills in September 2016.  It has touted the new pound notes (which are made from long-lasting and difficult to tear plastic polymers, rather than cotton paper) as cleaner, more durable, and better for the environment — as well as being far more difficult to counterfeit than their flimsier paper counterparts.  
We contacted the Bank of England to ask whether £5 bills (and the £10 and £20 notes that they will be rolling out later) contain beef tallow. A representative responded:
Thank you for your enquiry concerning the £5 polymer banknote, which has been passed to me for reply.
We can confirm that the polymer pellet from which the base substrate is made contains a trace of a substance known as tallow. Tallow is derived from animal fats (suet) and is a substance that is also widely used in the manufacture of candles and soap.
This is not the first time that the United Kingdom has implemented polymer notes, as BBC reported in 2013: 
In 1999, Northern Bank of Northern Ireland issued a polymer £5 commemorative note celebrating the year 2000.
A plastic note was introduced in the Isle of Man in 1983 but was withdrawn in 1988 owing to problems with the ink.
Adopters of the notes include Canada, whose last central bank governor – Mark Carney – is now the governor of the Bank of England.
 Beef tallow is indeed a trace ingredient of the polymer used for the new £5 notes in the UK. However, their appropriateness for use by vegetarians and vegans remains entirely subjective.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
£5
bank of england
beef
+3 more
tallow
vegans
vegetarians


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:28 November 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

