Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A prankster changed the name of Trump Tower to Dump Tower in Google Maps briefly on 26 November 2016.					
On 26 November 2016, a prankster altered Google Maps so that Trump Tower (the New York City home base for President-elect Donald Trump) was labeled “Dump Tower.” Multiple media outlets took screen shots of the change and posted them online:
Google Maps Shows “Dump Tower” When You Search For NYC’s Trump Tower https://t.co/Vor6zApJ4Gpic.twitter.com/UY3BiyvsmW
— BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews) November 27, 2016
The prank caught on, prompting another Google user to similarly alter the name of Trump International Hotel & Tower in Columbus Circle. But the names have since been corrected.
Google allows users to suggest edits to location names, not to outright change them, so it’s unclear how the edit was made:
It wasn’t the first time that a location on Google Maps has become vulnerable to some sort of malicious online defacement.
In May 2015, users on Google Maps would be directed to the White House if they searched for “N***a House.”
Earlier that year, Google had announced that it would no longer allow public edits to maps after a series of “Incidents,” but described the White House issue as some sort of “vandalism.”
A spokeswoman for the tech giant told the Associated Press:
User contributions help provide an up-to-date map, but also occasionally lead to inaccuracies.
The names of Trump’s buildings were corrected the same day the edits occurred.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
google maps
trolling
+1 more
trump tower


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:27 November 2016
Hernandez, Salvador. “Google Maps Shows “Dump Tower” In A Search For NYC’s Trump Tower.”
BuzzFeed News. 27 November 2016.
Associated Press. “Trump Tower becomes ‘Dump Tower’ on Google Maps.”
27 November 2016.
KXTV. “Dump International Hotel Renamed on Google Maps.”
  27 November 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

