Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Edward Snowden claimed that Russia fixed the 2016 general election so Donald Trump would win.							See Example( s )

On 25 November 2016, the web siteWorld News Daily Report published an article reporting that Edward Snowden claimed Russia successfully subverted an already-corrupt 2016 general election in favor of Donald Trump:
“I have received confirmation through Guccifer 2.0 that malware was used in the electronic voting machines that lead to the victory of Donald Trump” Snowden told an internet conference in Berlin, speaking via a video link from Russia, where he has been living as a fugitive.
“What is most surprising about this election, according to my information, is that the electronic voting machines were clearly rigged in Hillary Clinton’s favor, but Russian hackers cunningly used this to their advantage and inverted the process towards Donald Trump in the last moments leading to his election,” he added.
According to the story, Russian operatives hijacked a system that had already been rigged for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in its final stages to engineer a Trump win, using existing rumors about voting irregularities in the state of Wisconsin to bolster its claims.
However, there is no truth to any of the claims, as WNDR is a fake news site that uses outlandish, usually topical fabrications to attract traffic via social media. The article uses old, unrelated images of Edward Snowden to suggest that he recently made claims about Russia having a hand in Trump’s win, but the former CIA contractor made no such statements at any point after the November 2016 election.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
edward snowden
rigged election
+2 more
WNDR
world news daily report


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:27 November 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

