Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Swedish woman found a long-lost wedding ring in her carrot garden.							See Example( s )

When Lena Paahlsson first met and married her husband Ola, she designed her own wedding ring: a white gold affair studded with seven small diamonds. One day in 1995, while doing some Christmas baking, the ring went missing. Lena Paahlson had placed it on a clean work surface, but the ring wasn’t where it was supposed to be. The couple searched the kitchen of their home in Mora, Sweden thoroughly, but it had simply disappeared.
During renovations some years later, still hoping to find the wedding ring, they pulled up the tiles from the kitchen floor. The ring wasn’t there.
In 2011, sixteen years after her wedding ring had gone missing, Lena was working in her vegetable garden. She pulled up a small carrot and was almost ready to discard it when she noticed something shiny was attached to it — her wedding ring. The carrot plant had grown right through it, and the ring was snugly speared where the greens meet the carrot root. Lena let out a screech, which her daughter Anna heard from inside the house.
The couple will never know for sure exactly how Lena’s wedding ring ended up in the garden. They guessed that the ring fell into the compostable food bin, and ended up in a compost pile that was eventually spread over the vegetable garden. Perhaps one of their sheep ingested it while looking for a tasty treat in the compost pile, and the ring ended up in manure in the vegetable garden.
Regardless of how it happened, the Paahlssons are happy to have the ring back. Although the ring is too small to fit Lena Paahlsson anymore, she said that she would be having it resized.  
As she told the Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter:
Now that I have found the ring again, I want to be able to use it.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
carrot
Dagens Nyheter
lost and found
+2 more
sweden
wedding ring


Fact Checker:
Stephanie Larsen

Published:25 November 2016
Boroff, David.   “Swedish Couple Finds Long-Lost Wedding Ring on Carrot in Their Garden.”
   New York Daily News.  4 January 2012.
Ng, Christina.    “Swedish Woman Finds Lost Wedding Ring on a Carrot.”
   ABC News/Good Morning America.  4 January 2012.
“Sweden: Wedding Ring Found on Carrot After 16 years.”
     BBC News.  31 December 2011.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

