Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			CNN accidentally aired thirty minutes of porn during an episode of Anthony Bourdain's "Parts Unknown."					
On 24 November 2016, an image purporting to show a pornographic scene that was accidentally aired during an episode of Anthony Bourdain’s Parts Unknown on CNN was widely circulated on social media, accompanied by the hashtag #BourdainPorn:

Numerous web sites picked up on the hashtag and reported that CNN had accidentally aired thirty minutes of uninterrupted pornography:
CNN accidentally aired a half hour of porn instead of Anthony Bourdain’s ‘Parts Unknown’ – spicing up Thanksgiving night, a Boston viewer has claimed.
The viewer posted several photos of her screen on Twitter, showing how she was expecting to tune in for Bourdain’s travelogue but was met with explicit images of porn star Riley Quinn instead.
The porn movie, according to the user, went on for at least 30 minutes. She first saw it on CNN around 10:30 pm, watched something else, and kept checking periodically until the channel blacked out completely at 11 pm.
While numerous outlets repeated this claim, they all pointed back to one single source: Twitter user @SoLikeARose. This Twitter account was the first to post the image displayed here, and the only one to complain to @RCNConnects (the local cable TV provider that provides CNN for Boston):

RCN responded to @SoLikeARose and stated that they had not heard any other reports about the accidental pornography:

Despite the story’s single source, several outlets uncritically reported that CNN had aired thirty minutes of uninterrupted pornography. The network added more confusion to the situation when it released a statement blaming RCN for the mistake:
CNN issued a statement to media outlets on Friday blaming the incident on local cable provider RCN. It read: “The RCN cable operator in Boston aired inappropriate content for 30 minutes on CNN last night. CNN has asked for an explanation.”
However, CNN later backtracked, denying that any inappropriate content had interrupted Parts Unknown (or any other television show) in the Boston area on 24 November 2016:
Despite media reports to the contrary, RCN assures us that there was no interruption of CNN’s programming in the Boston area last night.
RCN released a statement of its own on 25 November 2016:
We are in the process of researching this incident but see no evidence our CNN network feed was compromised last evening in Boston.
No other reports have surfaced, and the Twitter account @SoLikeARose has since been made private.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:25 November 2016
Carissimo, Justin.   “CNN denies airing 30 minutes of hardcore porn.”
    The Independent.   25 November 2016.
Verhoeven, Beatrice.   “CNN Denies Reports That Network Accidentally Aired 30 Minutes of Hardcore Porn.”
    The Wrap.   25 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

