Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Bill Cosby was appointed the Secretary for Women's Rights by president-elect Donald Trump.					
On 23 November 2016, the entertainment web site Waterford Whispers News published a satirical article reporting that President-elect Donald Trump had appointed Bill Cosby as the Secretary of Women’s Rights:
“I get confused, hiring men as secretaries” tweeted Trump, in a rare moment of honesty.
“But when I do, I just pick the best people. Really. Ask anyone. Just the best people. So when I was told that I would have to elect someone that would handle all the matters relating to women and women’s rights in this country, I immediately knew there was one man for the job, Cliff Huxtable himself”.
Trump, who has come under fire for hiring controversial far-right Breitbart News executive chair Steve Bannon as his chief strategist and for considering renowned creationist Jerry Falwell Jr as his Secretary of Education, is adamant that Cosby will be ideal for the position despite his recent run-ins with the law.
The story quoted here is not a piece of genuine news, because Waterford Whispers News is a satirical publication that does not publish factual stories. A disclaimer on the web site clearly labels its content as fiction:
Waterford Whispers News is a fabricated satirical newspaper and comedy website published by Waterford Whispers News.
Waterford Whispers News uses invented names in all its stories, except in cases when public figures are being satirized. Any other use of real names is accidental and coincidental.
While Donald Trump has announced some appointments to his cabinet, as of this writing, Bill Cosby was not one of them; this is a case of pointed satire aimed at both Trump’s choice in political appointees and at Bill Cosby’s sexual assault scandals.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bill cosby
donald trump
fake news
+2 more
waterford whispers
waterford whispers news


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:25 November 2016
Updated:25 November 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

