Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Members of the alt-right group the National Policy Institute can be seen on video doing a Nazi-like salute as speaker Richard Spencer calls out "Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!"							See Example( s )

After most of the press had left, Spencer unleashed a tirade against Jews, women, and POC's. We caught it on tape: https://t.co/KYHrNfz8mC
A white nationalist group called the National Policy Institute (NPI) held a conference in Washington, DC on 19 November 2016 billed as a “central gathering point for alt-right writers, activists, and supporters.”
Among the featured speakers was the president of the organization, Richard Spencer (the man credited with coining the euphemism “alt-right“), who railed against what he called the “Lügenpresse” (German for “lying press,” a term the Nazis used to defame critics), called Donald Trump’s victory in the presidential election a “victory of will,” and said the only option for white people is to “conquer or die.”
On 21 November, The Atlantic posted a three-minute video of excerpts from Spencer’s speech, including a moment when he saluted Donald Trump with the words, “Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory,” which were echoed by the attendees, some of whom raised their arms and shouted “Hail Trump!” in a Nazi-like fashion:
 
The New York Times reported that civil rights groups were quick to condemn the incident and urge President-elect Trump to disavow such groups and their white supremacist message:
Civil rights groups called on President-elect Donald Trump on Monday to publicly condemn extremist movements that are espousing racism in his name after hundreds of white nationalist sympathizers spent the weekend in Washington debating ways to preserve white culture.
Trump has been accused of fanning the flames of hate groups with his hard-line positions on immigration, his hesitance to denounce the former Klansman David Duke and his occasional promotion of white nationalist accounts on Twitter. While Trump has called for an end to hate crimes and said he wants to bring the country together, he has not been full throated on expressing disapproval of the alt-right, a rebranded white nationalist movement.
“We would like him to stand up and denounce these folks,” Heidi Beirich, who tracks hate groups for the Southern Poverty Law Center, said of Trump. “It’s inexplicable. The longer it goes on, the more you have to wonder if it’s not intentional.”
Anti-Defamation League national director Jonathan Greenblatt echoed the call:
To have a group like this convening steps away from the White House proclaiming that what happened two weeks ago was a great victory for them and their ideas, there is value for the president-elect stating clearly that these are not American values, that their ideology is in conflict with American ideals.
Early on in the 2016 presidential race, Trump pleaded ignorance of the existence of the alt-right movement, saying “nobody even knows what it is.” After the release of the video by The Atlantic, however, a Trump spokesperson issued a statement saying the President-elect unequivocally disavows the group:
“Mr. Trump has always denounced these groups and individuals associated with a message of hate,” Hicks said. “Mr. Trump will be a president for all Americans. However, he totally disavows the support of this group, which he does not want or need.”
Donald Trump himself affirmed that disavowal on 22 November 2016. For Richard Spencer’s part, NBC News reported that the NPI president later claimed his Trump salute was intended as “ironic“:
“There’s an ironic exuberance to it all,” Spencer claimed. “I think that’s … one of the things that makes the alt-right fun, is that we’re willing to do things that are a bit cheeky.”
Apart from trying to spin the incident as “fun” and “a bit cheeky”, Spencer made no attempt to deny or disavow what was shown in the video.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
alt-right
donald trump
heil trump
+4 more
national policy institute
nazi salute
Richard Spencer
white supremacists


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Featured Image:theatlantic.com
Published:23 November 2016
Diamond, Jeremy.   “Donald Trump Disavows ‘Alt-Right.”
   CNN.   23 November 2016.
Goldstein, Joseph.   “Alt-Right Exults in Donald Trump’s Election with a Salute: ‘Heil Victory.'”
   The New York Times.   20 November 2016.
Lambroso, Daniel and Appelbaum, Yoni.   “‘Hail Trump!’: White Nationalists Salute the President Elect.”
   The Atlantic.   21 November 2016.
Noack, Rick.   “The Ugly History of ‘Lügenpresse,’ a Nazi Slur Shouted at a Trump Rally.”
   The Washington Post.   24 October 2016.
Rappeport, Alan.   “Civil Rights Groups Call on Trump to Denounce Racism of Alt-Right.”
   The New York Times.   21 November 2016.
Sherfinski, David.   “Donald Trump: ‘There’s No Alt-Right’; ‘Nobody Even Knows What It Is.'”
   The Washington Times.   26 August 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

