Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Clint Eastwood refused to accept the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Obama.					
On 22 November 2016, the disreputable web site Departed.co published an article that reported that Clint Eastwood had refused to accept the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Obama.
The “article” consisted of a sensational headline (“Clint Eastwood Refuses to Accept Presidential Medal of Freedom From Obama, Says ‘He is not my president'”) and a screenshot of a message allegedly posted by the actor on Twitter:

However, the @ClintEastwoodLA Twitter account is not associated with the actor. The bio for this account claims that it is run by “Walt Kowalski,” Eastwood’s character from the movie Gran Torino:
NOT Clint Eastwood. I’m Walt Kowalski #GranTorino, Callahan #DirtyHarry & Munny in#Unforgiven. I’m the good, the bad, & the ugly. #Fansite. Now #GetOffMyLawn
Furthermore, we found no record of the Tweet here posted to this parody account, indicating that the message fabricated by Departed.co. The parody Clint Eastwood account confirmed that they never posted the above-displayed message:
The White House announced the list of recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom on 16 November 2016, which did not include Clint Eastwood:
Today, President Barack Obama named 21 recipients of the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the Nation’s highest civilian honor, presented to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors. The awards will be presented at the White House on November 22nd.
President Obama said, “The Presidential Medal of Freedom is not just our nation’s highest civilian honor – it’s a tribute to the idea that all of us, no matter where we come from, have the opportunity to change this country for the better.  From scientists, philanthropists, and public servants to activists, athletes, and artists, these 21 individuals have helped push America forward, inspiring millions of people around the world along the way.”
That’s not to say that Eastwood has not received commendations from Barack Obama in the past. In 2010, the president conferred the National Medal of Arts to twelve recipients, including the actor. While Eastwood did not attend the ceremony, he did not reject the award, and is currently listed on the National Endowments of the Arts web site as an award winner. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:23 November 2016
Updated:30 November 2016
Julia, Boccagno.   “President Obama awards 21 recipients with the Presidenti.”
    CBS News.   22 November 2016.
Itzkoff, Dave.   “National Medal of Arts Winners Include Bob Dylan, Clint Eastwood and Maya Lin.”
    New York Times.   25 February 2010.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

