Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			House Speaker Paul Ryan is conducting a phone survey regarding experiences with the Affordable Care Act.							See Example( s )

As of November 2016, House Speaker Paul Ryan’s Washington D.C. office is allowing callers to express their opinion regarding the Affordable Care Act, often called the ACA or, more simply, Obamacare.
The survey can be accessed by calling either (202) 225-3031 or (202) 225-0600. In each case, there is a period of silence before callers are asked to press “2” if they want to “express [their] opinion on President [Barack] Obama’s healthcare law”; for example, it took two minutes and 30 seconds before being able to begin the process while calling the latter number.
At that point, a statement plays promoting not only Ryan’s opposition to the law, but also his support for House Resolution 3762, which House Republicans passed in October 2015 in an effort to repeal portions of the ACA:
Speaker Ryan has heard from many individuals who have serious concerns about what the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will mean for them, their families, and their businesses. In an effort to clear the way for common-sense reform, the House has acted boldly. HR 3762 — the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act — dismantles the president’s health care law. It repeals the individual and employer mandates, the medical device tax, and the “Cadillac tax” on high-value insurance plans. This bill eliminates the most harmful pieces of the ACA and lays the foundation for a patient-centered system.
Not surprisingly, President Obama vetoed HR 3762. On February 2, in bipartisan fashion, the House voted 241-186 to override the president’s veto. While this bipartisan majority failed to meet the two-thirds threshold required by the Constitution to override a presidential veto, the House demonstrated its unwavering commitment to repealing the ACA by completing the entirety of the constitutional process.
If you support President Obama’s healthcare law, press 1. If you are opposed to President Obama’s healthcare law, press 2.

At that point, callers have the option of leaving a voicemail for Ryan. However, the recording does not mention that HR 3762 also called for a one-year freeze on federal funding for Planned Parenthood.
We attempted to contact Ryan’s office for comment. Ryan himself has not addressed the survey either on his website or on social media.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Gage Skidmore
Published:21 November 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

