Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			'Hamilton' actor Brandon Victor Dixon sent a controversial tweet in 2012, uncovered after he delivered an on-stage speech to Vice President-Elect Mike Pence.					
On 18 November 2016, the cast of Broadway musical Hamilton made national news when actor Brandon Michael Dixon addressed visiting Vice President-elect Mike Pence during the show’s curtain call.
Dixon and that night’s performance of Hamilton made headlines overnight when Pence was first loudly booed by several of his fellow theatergoers, and again when Dixon’s plea went viral:
You know, we have a guest in the audience this evening. Vice President-elect Pence, I see you walking out but I hope you hear just a few more moments. There’s nothing to boo, ladies and gentlemen. There’s nothing to boo. We’re all here sharing a story of love. We have a message for you, sir. We hope that you will hear us out.
And I encourage everybody to pull out your phones and tweet and post, because this message needs to be spread far and wide, OK?
Vice President-elect Pence, we welcome you and we truly thank you for joining us here at Hamilton: An American Musical. We really do.
We sir, we, are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us — our planet, our children, our parents — or defend us and uphold our inalienable rights, sir. But we truly hope that this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and to work on behalf of all of us. All of us.
Again, we truly thank you for sharing this show, this wonderful American story told by a diverse group of men and women of different colors, creeds, and orientations.
Predictably, the events of the night were approved by many of President-elect Donald Trump’s detractors, and interpreted as an insult by many of his supporters (who began using the hashtag #BoycottHamilton). The debate immediately got messy, and in the ensuing social media back-and-forth, a tweet sent by Dixon on 17 March 2012 was unearthed:
St. Patty’s day weekend is like Christmas for black dudes who like white chicks. Happy holidays boys. @reesewaters#seasonsgreetings
— Brandon Victor Dixon (@BrandonVDixon) March 17, 2012

Although it appeared in a time of fake tweets being commonly spread for political purposes, the tweet attributed to Brandon Victor Dixon here is real and unaltered. As of 21 November 2016, it remained accessible in his Twitter timeline.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
boycotthamilton
brandon victor dixon
hamilton
+2 more
mike pence
twitter controversy


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:21 November 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

