Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Melania Trump said that Native Americans upset about the Dakota Access Pipeline should "go back to India".					
On 21 November 2016, the Facebook page “Fox News The FB Page” published an image of Melania Trump, along with a quote purportedly from her about Native Americans protesting the Dakota Access Pipeline:
I don’t know much about this pipe issue, but I do know many people have fought and died for this country. If all these Indians hate America so much, they should pack their things and move back to India.
Melania Trump did not say this, and “Fox News The FB Page” is not the official Facebook page of Fox News, but an entertainment group that frequently posts fictitious quotes in order to satirize or mock public figures. This group has previously published fictitious quotes ostensibly from President Obama, Carly Fiorina, and another from Melania Trump.
This fictitious quote mirrored other fake news stories, such as a hoax article that suggested Eric Trump once said that he would deport Hispanics “back to Asia”, or another satire piece reporting Sarah Palin said that Native Americans should go back to “Nativia.” 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
dakota access pipeline
dapl
fox news the fb page
+1 more
melania trump


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:FLICKR
Published:21 November 2016
Updated:1 February 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

