Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin on a billboard above the words "Let's make the world great again — together."					
In November 2016, a photograph purportedly showing a billboard featuring images of the United States’ president-elect Donald Trump and Russia’s president Vladimir Putin above the words “let’s make the world great again — together” was widely circulated on social media:
While the above-displayed image was met with some skepticism, it is indeed real. This photograph was originally published by Getty Images on 16 November 2016 and shows a billboard in the town of Danilovgrad in Montenegro:
Cars pass by a billboard showing US President-elect Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin placed by pro-Serbian movement in the town of Danilovgrad on November 16, 2016.
Another image of the billboard was captured by Reuters:
 
The Washington Post included the image in an article published on 18 November 2016 about how Russians in the city of Obninsk were planning to rally in support of a Trump presidency:
The demonstration was organized [by] Artyom Mainas, a 27-year-old blogger in Obninsk, a nuclear-research center 60 miles south of Moscow. He decided to act after seeing news from the United States about demonstrations against Trump’s election.
“I believe it is very important to support him here in Russia,” said Mainas.
However, while the billboard is genuine, it is not in Russia (as might be inferred from its use illustrating a story about Russia’s support of Trump), but in the Balkan country of Montenegro.  
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
billboard
putin
russia
+1 more
trump


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Kremlin
Published:18 November 2016
Updated:13 December 2016
Filipov, David.   “Russian Town to Rally for Trump while Putin warns U.S. on weapons.”
    Washington Post.   18 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

