Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video depicts angry Muslims in a Western mall tearing down a Christmas tree because it offended them.							See Example( s )

In mid-November 2016, a number of web sites published a video of people climbing on a Christmas tree in a Western-style shopping mall, along with claims that it depicted Muslims attacking the familiar holiday symbol because it offended them:
Ahh, the religion of peace and tolerance. Whenever Muslims move to Western nations they try to change everything about the culture to conform to sharia law. When they’re not doing that, they’re tearing down Christmas trees, because, Jesus, birth of the Son of God and all that. To them, Jesus is only a prophet, to Christians, He is God’s only son born of a woman.
You can see in the video several Muslim men climbing a Christmas tree in a Mall. They are trying to tear it apart. They don’t do a very good job which leads one to believe it must be made of metal or something.

Most versions didn’t specifically say that the video was filmed in the United States (they were tellingly vague about the who, what, when, where, and why aspects of the clip), but some of them referenced “Western nations” and the purported failure of Muslims to assimilate in Western countries.
Advancing the suggestion that the video had been filmed in America was a nearly universally included ancillary (and misleading) claim that Muslims had demanded the cancellation of Christmas holidays in Maryland public schools (back in 2014):
Religion of peace huh? The video below seems to point to the contrary as Muslims are seen tearing down a mall Christmas tree because it is a Christian holiday and in their minds, Jesus was only a prophet.
You can see in the video several Muslim men climbing a Christmas tree in a Mall. They try to tear it apart but don’t do a very good job at it.
Now, this isn’t the only time Muslims have attacked Christmas. Islamists in Maryland complained that they didn’t have a holiday for their “holy days” like Christians do, and a school board removed Yom Kippur, Easter, and Christmas from their school calendar.
Despite an utter lack of contextual information, the clip spread like wildfire on Facebook and Twitter. Previous versions placed the purported Muslim Christmas tree attack in European countries such as Sweden or France:
I liked a @YouTube video https://t.co/2hCB7EuUv5 SWEDEN: Muslim Mob raids Christmas Tree, Rips off Crosses, destroys Decoration in — Douglyyss (@On_Dougs) November 14, 2016
The clip was in no way new in November 2016, as an identical version of it had appeared on YouTube with no identifying information on 7 April 2016. A LiveLeak stamp led to an earlier version of the video published on 12 January 2016, which asserted the clip was filmed in “their own country.” On 4 and 8 January 2016, respectively, YouTube users uploaded versions they reported were filmed at the Mall of Arabia in Cairo (archived here):
Cairo, Egypt: Mall of Arabia shoppers extremely offended at Christmas tree https://t.co/iYpcwIQjcG @TRobinsonNewEra
