Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Trump blasted the electoral college in 2012.					
After the results of the 8 November 2016 made it clear Republican candidate Donald Trump had become president-elect of the United States, many disappointed citizens criticized the American electoral college system for selecting presidents that does not guarantee victory to the candidate who receives the most votes. Trump’s rival, Hillary Clinton, narrowly won the popular vote count  but lost the race under the electoral college system.
It is an ironic twist then that in 2012, when Republican candidate Mitt Romney lost to President Barack Obama, Trump lashed out about the electoral college system, even though Obama had won both the popular vote and the electoral college totals:
The electoral college is a disaster for a democracy.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 7, 2012
The electoral college system last sparked similar controversy  in 2000, when George W. Bush was elected president without winning the popular vote.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:10 November 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

