Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Americans crashed Canada's immigration web site immediately after Donald Trump was elected.							See Example( s )

As the 8 November 2016 U.S. general election wound down, social media users claimed that Canada’s immigration web site had crashed because of the results:
The Canadian Immigration website has crashed. Seriously. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/XXSfCorTd1
— Cause We’re Canadian (@MadelnCanada) November 9, 2016
On 9 March 2016, we reported on a nearly identical claim that Canada’s immigration site had crashed after a string of Trump’s primary wins. The March 2016 site errors lasted much longer than the initial search spike: 
A key aspect of the rumor hinged on the number of Americans searching for ways to get out of the country on Canada’s official immigration site, but when we visited that link on 9 March 2016, a nearly identical error message appeared: 
The site was inaccessible for some visitors, but connectivity problems were not necessarily associated with disgruntled voters: 
Lisa Filipps, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, confirmed on Wednesday that the department’s site had failed “as a result of a significant increase in the volume of traffic,” though she gave no details about the source of the traffic. Ms. Filipps said technicians were working to restore the site. The crash added to a growing list of computer problems that have plagued the Canadian government for several years.
Canada’s Citizenship and Immigration web site was inaccessible for parts of 8 and 9 November 2016. Similar rumors circulated during primary elections in March 2016, and problems with the Canadian government’s technical infrastructure were previously documented. 
On 10 November 2016, the Canadian government confirmed that a “flood” of visitors from the United States was indeed what had crashed its site:
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada confirmed that visitors from the U.S. made up half the traffic on its website when it “started to experience difficulties” around 11 p.m. on Nov. 8. The usual proportion of visitors from the U.S. ranges from 8.8 to 11.6 per cent.
In total, 200,000 users were on the website when it crashed, compared to 17,000 users at the same time the previous week.
At the time of the crash, 37 per cent of visitors were in Canada, three per cent in Australia and one per cent in the United Kingdom.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:9 November 2016
Updated:10 November 2016
Austin, Ian.   “As Donald Trump Took The Lead, Canada’s Immigration Website Buckled.”
    New York Times.   9 November 2016.
Domonoske, Camila.   “Canada’s Immigration Website Goes Down For Hours After U.S. Election.”
    NPR.   9 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

