Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Marilyn Mosby posted (and then deleted) a picture showing her daughter in the ballot booth							See Example( s )

Much like Eric Trump (son of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump), Baltimore State’s Attorney Marilyn Mosby tweeted, then scrubbed, a picture that violated voting regulations.
The image, which was circulated online and in news reports, showed Mosby’s daughter holding a pen while standing inside what appeared to be a voting booth and looking at a blank ballot.
Mosby also tagged Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in the picture alongside a caption indicating Clinton was Mosby’s choice:
“We Voted Today #DoYourPartAndDoTheSame #We’reWithHer
We’ve reached out to both the State’s Attorney office and Mosby’s spokesperson for comment on the picture, which Mosby has since deleted. 
Maryland state election regulations stipulate that neither cell phones nor cameras can be used at  polling locations, unless election officials or police do so while “acting in their official capacities.” News outlets may also use cameras inside a polling place as long as they are not filming touchscreens or ballots. 
Mosby’s daughter joining her at the polls is not a violation, since parents are allowed to bring children under the age of 18 into voting areas “as long as they do not disrupt or interfere with normal voting procedures.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Baltimore Sun
Published:8 November 2016
Maryland State Board of Elections.   “Rules and Information for Voters.”
Fenton, Justin   “Baltimore’s Top Prosecutor Posts, Deletes Ballot-Box Picture.”
    The Baltimore Sun   8 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

