Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump's son, Eric, posted -- and then deleted -- a possibly illegal photograph of his ballot on Twitter.					
On 8 November 2016, a screenshot purportedly showing a deleted Tweet from Donald Trump’s son, Eric, featuring an image of his marked ballot was widely circulated via social media:
eric trump deleted his violation of new york state law, so here it is for posterity pic.twitter.com/Y0ss1Ew5Wc
— noah kulwin (@nkulw) November 8, 2016

The above-displayed screenshot is real. The tweet was posted by Eric Trump on 8 November 2016 but was deleted shortly afterwards:
Although the tweet’s URL currently leads to Twitter’s “Sorry, that page doesn’t exist” page, we managed to archive a cached version of the tweet:
Taking a “ballot selfie” or posting a photograph showing the inside of your voting booth may or may not be illegal, depending upon what state you’re voting in. Unfortunately, Eric Trump posted his ballot picture from New York, a state where “ballot selfies” are still against the law — as a federal judge had affirmed just a few days earlier:

A federal judge says he is not overturning a New York state ban against ballot selfies or the showing of a marked election ballot to others.
Manhattan Judge P. Kevin Castel said in a written ruling that people who want to publicize their ballot choices can do so through “other powerful means.”
The ruling came in response to a lawsuit brought on behalf of voters. The lawsuit contended that voters had a First Amendment right to share a photograph of their ballot with others, even through social media.
Lawyers for the state and New York City argued against it. The state argued that a law more than a century old banned people from showing their marked ballot to others.
U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan said it would “wreak havoc on election-day logistics” to issue a preliminary injunction against the law, which prohibits the display of “ballot selfies.”
Under the law, which dates from the 19th century, it is a misdemeanor for voters to share the contents of completed ballots. Violators could face up to one year in prison.
Three voters sued on Oct. 26 to block enforcement of the law, saying that sharing ballot selfies was a form of speech protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment.
But the judge said that because of the imminence of the election, the voters needed to show a “clear or substantial likelihood” that their lawsuit would succeed before he could issue an injunction, and that they had not done so.
“The public’s interest in orderly elections outweighs the plaintiffs’ interest in taking and posting ballot selfies,” though they remained free to express their political message through “other powerful means,” Castel wrote.
It should be noted that Eric Trump’s ballot photograph does not include his name or his picture. While it is assumed that the tweet pictured the real ballot Trump used to cast his vote, that element has not been verified.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ballot selfie
donald trump
election 2016
+1 more
eric trump


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:8 November 2016
Updated:8 November 2016
Ohlheiser, Abby.   “Yes, Your Ballot Selfie Still Might Be Illegal. Sorry.”
    Washington Post.   8 November 2016.
Stempel, Jonathan.   “Judge Refuses to Block New York ‘Ballot Selfie’ Law.”
    Reuters.   3 November 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

