Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton's first name was spelled "Hilliary" on election ballots printed for use in Lonoke County, Arkansas.							See Example( s )

It’s a head-scratcher. No one seems to know how it happened, but the ballots printed up for use by Lonoke County, Arkansas residents in the 2016 general election contained a suspicious typo: Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s name is spelled with an extra “i” — “Hilliary” — as in “Hil-liar-y.”
KARK 4 News in central Arkansas confirmed the misspelling with county elections officials, who said it happened despite multiple proofreadings:
“It is amazing that that many people missed it,” Jerry Shepard, chairman of the Lonoke County Election Commission, said.
After crossing what they thought was every T under the sun, the Lonoke County Election Commission admits there was an I that not only didn’t need to be dotted but should never have appeared on the ballot. 
“We were not made aware of it until voting began,” Shepard said.
“Hillary has an extra I in it, but Clinton is spelled perfectly correctly,” Shepard said.
Shepard, we should note, is a Republican, though his fellow commissioner Jimmy Wallace is a Democrat, and Wallace agreed that no defamation was intended. Not everyone was willing to take it for granted that the misspelling was an innocent mistake, however. A local voter posted this blunt accusation on Facebook:
They spelt it “Hilliary” which I’ve seen some of my friends say Lonoke county did this on purpose to spell liar.
I would like to believe that they did not do this on purpose because I think it was just a spelling error. However I did contact the clerks office and told them of this error and they told me that they are blowing it off because they don’t expect people in Lonoke county to vote for Hillary Clinton.
Whoever I spoke to they were rude and they just laughed off my complaint so I decided to call the Arkansas Secretary of State’s office. They took my complaint and forwarded me to the Arkansas Election Commission, where I filed an official complaint on the Lonoke County Clerks office.
Shepard said there wouldn’t be enough time to reprint the ballots before election day.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:5 November 2016
Boozer, Chelsea.   “Misspelling on One Arkansas Ballot Effectively Inserts ‘Liar’ into Hillary Clinton’s First Name.”
   Arkansas Online.   5 November 2016.
Miller, Shannon.   “Hillary Clinton Typo Appears on Lonoke County Ballots.”
   KARK 4 News.   2 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

