Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs show a truck that crashed through a highway barrier and skirted a culvert on the edge of a cliff.							See Example( s )




The above-displayed photographs depict a December 2006 accident in which the driver of 1991 GMC pickup slid off the road onto the right shoulder, overcorrected when he turned back to the left, and crossed over the opposite lane of the highway before crashing though a cement barrier, skirting a railing above a drainage culvert, and coming to rest facing opposite his original direction of travel — barely missing a plunge over a 200-foot precipice by about twelve inches.
The roadway seen in these pictures is Highway 59 (i.e., State Route 59) near Hurricane City, Utah:

The Hurricane City Police department confirmed that these images “are consistent with a single vehicle traffic accident that occurred on State Route 59 in Hurricane City” on 30 December 2006, and that “Hurricane City Police and Hurricane City Fire Rescue responded to the scene.” The driver told police he was traveling at 55 mph when he left the road, but the police report of the incident notes that the truck left a 92-foot-long skid mark, suggesting a much higher speed (perhaps 75 to 80 mph).
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:12 February 2007
Updated:2 March 2017
McLaughlin, Eliott C.    “Amazing Truck Crash Photos Spark Web Debate.”
    CNN.com.   6 September 2007.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

