Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Department of Homeland Security chairman has officially indicted Hillary Clinton on charges of treason.							See Example( s )

On 2 November 2016, Fox News’ Bret Baier reported that unnamed FBI sources had confirmed that at least five foreign intelligence agencies are known to have hacked Hillary Clinton’s e-mail server, that several investigations are ongoing — including a criminal probe of “pay-for-play” allegations regarding the Clinton Foundation — and that an indictment will “likely” result.
After the accuracy of these claims was disputed by other news outlets, however, Baier admitted his reporting had been erroneous:
I explained a couple of times yesterday the phrasing of one of my answers to Brit Hume on Wednesday night, saying it was inartful, the way I answered the last question about whether the investigations would continue after the election. And I answered that, yes, our sources said it would. They would continue to likely to an indictment. Well, that just wasn’t inartful, it was a mistake, and for that I’m sorry. I should have said, they will continue to build their case. Indictment obviously is a very loaded word, Jon, especially in this atmosphere and no one knows if there would or would not be an indictment no matter how strong investigators feel their evidence is. It is obviously a prosecutor who has to agree to take the case and make that case to a grand jury.
Baier also contradicted his own report that the FBI had established a “99% certainty” that at least five foreign entities hacked Clinton’s private server:
On the hacking of Clinton’s private, unsecured server, while multiple sources believe and are operating under the working assumption that the server has been hacked, and some had specific quotes to that belief, there are, to this day no digital fingerprints of such breaches.
Unfortunately, by the time he issued his corrections Baier’s original, inaccurate reporting had already sparked a flurry of even more inaccurate reports from unreliable web sites claiming that Clinton herself had been “officially indicted” for treason. This specimen, for example, was posted on Ending the Fed on 3 November 2016, and got a considerable amount of play via social media:
BREAKING: Department of Homeland Security Chairman Officially Indicts Hillary Clinton Of TREASON
The Department of Homeland Security just went on the air with Fox News and told the American People that Hillary Clinton is guilty of treason.
In the damning announcement, Department of Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul revealed that Hillary Clinton clearly acted against the multiple security warnings she received while Secretary of State.
Furthermore, he went on to release that Hillary Clinton took multiple devices overseas. Not only that, these devices were proven to be hacked by China, Russia, and the Islamic State of Iran.
The intent is clear. Hillary Clinton used the secret server to hide her actions from the American People. She committed pure treason against the United States. Here is the full video:

The article is egregiously inaccurate in these key respects:
1. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who appears in the video above, is not the “Department of Homeland Security chairman” (there is no such entity). McCaul is the chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security.
2. While McCaul did state in the video that in his opinion Hillary Clinton is guilty of “treason” for using a private e-mail server while Secretary of State, he did not announce an indictment — nor, indeed, would he have the judicial power, as a Congressman, to secure such an indictment — against Clinton.
3. As we know from Bret Baier’s own corrections, it is not the case that any government official has gone on record saying an indictment of Clinton is likely, much less that an indictment already went forward.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:4 November 2016
Byers, Dyland and Brian Stelter.   “Fox Anchor: ‘Mistake’ in Indictment Story.”
   CNN.   4 November 2016.
Fox News.   “Happening Now: Bret Baier Clarifies Reporting on Clinton Foundation Probe.”
   4 November 2016.
Fox News.   “On the Record: Bret Baier Confirms new details in FBI Clinton Foundation investigation.”
   2 November 2016.
Fox News.   “Sources: 99 Percent Chance Foreign Intel Agencies Breached Clinton Server.
   3 November 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

