Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Dunkin Donuts' new holiday cup features an image of Richard Dawkins giving the finger.					
On 3 November 2016, the web site Above Average published an article reporting that Dunkin’ Donuts 2016 holiday cups featured an image of evolutionary biologist (and noted atheist) Richard Dawkins giving the middle finger:
I consider myself a reasonable woman. Although I’m disappointed by Starbucks’ choice to eliminate Christmas from their holiday cup designs in recent years, I’m not the type to get up in arms about little things like that. But after Dunkin Donuts revealed their new holiday cups, I couldn’t stay silent any longer.
When I stopped into Dunkin Donuts yesterday, I was greeted by a terrible surprise when the cashier handed me my hot chocolate in their new holiday cup. There was no Christmas motif, no red and green, and not a seasonal snowflake to be found. It was just the Dunkin Donuts logo and a picture of notorious atheist Richard Dawkins giving me the finger. I asked to speak to the manager immediately.
This article was just a satirical take on the annual “War on Christmas” controversies that have in recent years included Starbucks’ holiday cups, including the 2015 version that did not feature any religious symbols, as well as the coffee chain’s November 2016 (non-holiday) green unity cup.
Author Emily Davidove used these controversies as the basis for a satirical piece about a fictional Dunkin’ Donuts cup that was published on Above Average, a comedy web site:
We are a leading multi-disciplinary entertainment company that develops and produces original, laugh-out-loud comedy programming. Founded in 2012 as an independent subsidiary of Lorne Michaels’ Broadway Video, Above Average is a digital-first company with a 40-year television and film legacy.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
above average
dunkin donuts
holiday cups
+1 more
richard dawkins


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:FLICKR
Published:4 November 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

