Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			WikiLeaks documents revealed campaign head John Podesta unflatteringly described Hillary Clinton's personal hygiene and intellect.					
On 31 October 2016, what appeared to be a screenshot of an e-mail purportedly sent by John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, to an unidentified individual was circulated online, describing the candidate in several unflattering ways:
People tell me that Hillary is acting ‘like a retard’ since her head injury. Frankly, considering her normal behavior, I’m surprised anyone noticed! (this is a joke!) Have someone talk to her doctor and see if there’s anything he can give her.
Also, I’ve noticed she’s had an “odor” lately. It reminds me of a combination of boiled cabbage, urine, and farts. I’m guessing it’s either connected to her fall or simply the fact that she rarely bathes. Outside of encouraging her to take a shower once in a while, I don’t know what to do about this. — any suggestions would be appreciated.
–sent from my iPad–
john.podesta@gmail.com
The image appeared during the release of a multi-part WikiLeaks series called “The Podesta Emails” (gleaned from hacked e-mails sent to and from Podesta’s account), and in the flood of documents dumped by WikiLeaks throughout October 2016 it was often mistaken for a legitimate communication.  However, it was pretty simple to discern via WikiLeaks searchable archive that no such offensive e-mail exists. 
John Podesta confirms for us that Hillary Clinton "rarely bathes," and emits an "odor" that smells like "boiled cabbage, urine, and farts." pic.twitter.com/Y9oDesjsIP
— Randy Webb (@imlikefinewine) November 1, 2016

This claim was far from the first opportunistic WikiLeaks fabrication to go viral on social media. An earlier fabricated WikiLeaks item falsely suggested Clinton had described a large swath of Democrats as “a bucket of losers.” 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
cabbage
hillary clinton
john podesta
+1 more
wikileaks


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:1 November 2016
Updated:2 January 2018
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

