Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton tweeted that we should #DraftOurDaughters, encouraging women to go to war.							See Example( s )

@HillaryClinton "I support women registering for the draft"#DraftOurDaughters#Hillary2016https://t.co/k46WHenflp pic.twitter.com/n35mweIGdB
On 28 October 2016, the hashtag #DraftOurDaughters began trending on Twitter, vaguely connected with purportedly “leaked” ads produced by Hillary For America (an arm of the Hillary Clinton campaign). 
#DraftOurDaughters appeared in the early hours of 28 October 2016, quickly becoming popular. Dozens of official looking images boasted a pro-war position, and one popular purported tweet from Clinton was circulated widely:
@OnMessageForHer Yeah no she just lost my vote. Like wtf?! Democrats want to DRAFT ME? I’ll vote Trump so I don’t go to war and die TYVM pic.twitter.com/TiCHA2Xrmw
— Alisha Arsenault (@alishabae69) October 28, 2016


The depicted tweet appeared to exist only in screenshot form, and was not anywhere to be found on Hillary Clinton’s account. The tweet from Twitter user “@alishabae69” was the first ever published by that account, which was created in October 2016 and consisted solely of #DraftOurDaughters content.
The avatar for that account appeared to be lifted from a widely circulated image of a woman named Alena Ushkova. The photograph was first published in 2014, and apparently depicted a person not from the United States:

A Facebook page was one of several social media users or entities to assert that news outlets “took the bait“, covering the hashtag as a legitimate Clinton campaign effort.
That article was clearly marked as an unvetted “community” submission, and contained obviously satirical content:
I wonder what Donald will have to say about this one… I’m sure my wife would be proud to stand up to Russia’s homophobic and Christian ways. #ImWithHer #EnlistForHillary #DraftOurDaughters
Remember to vote November 12th!
It didn’t take all that much digging to discover #DraftOurDaughters was the work of Clinton opponents, as commenters on the subreddit r/The_Donald explained:

The #DraftOurDaughters hashtag was not an official Hillary Clinton campaign effort. The trend originated on 4chan’s /pol/, where users cooked up fake campaign ads and arranged to spread them on social media in an attempt to dupe fellow users. Separate threads on /pol/ laid out the plan and directed users to create as many versions of the memes as possible with which to flood social media, and there was no question the ads were neither legitimate nor reflected an actual Clinton campaign effort.  
Clinton has gone on record supporting legislation to include women in the draft, but has also clarified that she favors an all-volunteer military:
“I am on record as supporting the all-volunteer military, which I think at this time does serve our country well,” Clinton told The Huffington Post. “And I am very committed to supporting and really lifting up the men and women in uniform and their families.”
The effort was one of several coordinated trolling efforts by the board and similar forums. Previous hoaxes included dangerous Bernie Sanders glowstick instructions, a fabricated tweet claiming that a McDonald’s worker spat in white people’s food, a widely reported spate of fake “white students’ unions” at colleges, and a massively viral “propaganda” video about refugees in Europe.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
/pol/
4chan
draftourdaughters
+3 more
fake
hillary for america
trolling


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:28 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

