Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows actor Bill Murray and a crying baby.					
In October 2016, many people took to social media to weigh in on the burning question of whether a photograph of actor Bill Murray was actually a photograph of actor Tom Hanks:

The man pictured here is not Tom Hanks, despite the fact that if you casually glance at the photograph, he does quite resemble Hanks here. This image shows actor Bill Murray at a golf tournament in Scotland in 2012 and was originally published to the web site “Reasons My Son Is Crying” in May 2013:
Reasons my son is crying.
He met Bill Murray.
Submitted by: Laura R.
Location: St. Andrew’s, Scotland
While the origins of this photograph are well-documented, some refused to believe that the picture actually shows Bill Murray. The BBC attempted to settle the matter once and for all, and contacted “Laura R.” for comment:
It’s totally Bill. I can vouch cause I’m the one in the photo with the massive grin thinking “oh my god this is going to be an awesome photo!”
Laura R. also said that the photograph was taken at the Alfred Dunhill Links golf competition at St. Andrews in October 2012. We searched Getty Images for photographs from the event and sure enough, the agency’s photographers captured several images of Bill Murray in the same orange coat and hat:
 
Bill Murray is the actor making a small child cry in this photograph, not Tom Hanks.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:28 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

