Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs show Jimmy John Liautaud, the owner of Jimmy John's Gourmet Sandwiches, on big game hunts.					
On 10 June 2011, the web site Smile Politely uncovered photos purportedly showing Jimmy John Liautaud, the founder of Jimmy John’s Gourmet Sandwiches, posing with various dead “trophy” animals, including an elephant and a leopard:
The man pictured in these photographs (which are no longer available on the Johan Calitz Safaris’ Facebook Page) certainly bears a striking resemblance to Mr. Liautaud, and according to Sporting Classics Daily the pictures date from a 2010 safari:
The founder and CEO of Jimmy John’s, a restaurant chain famous for the quick delivery of its products, is under fire for a 2010 African safari he participated in.
Jimmy John Liautaud took elephants, a rhino, and a leopard, along with plains game species — posing afterward for photos with a smile on his face and a thumbs up. Liautaud’s trophy hunting angered many and led to numerous calls for boycotts of his company. That anger has waxed and waned over the years as the photos have sporadically resurfaced, but the hunter began receiving consistent flak in the fall of 2015 after “Cecil” the lion’s death earlier that year.
The Hunting Report, a magazine that has been covering “high-quality big game hunting in North America and Africa” since the 1980s, has recorded several of Liautaud’s hunts for animals such as wolf, Rhinoceros, deer, and Lynx.
The Hunting Report also has a record of Jimmy John Liautaud (although misspelled “Liaufand”) going on a big game hunt in Botswana for elephant, buffalo, and zebra with Johan Calitz Safaris:
There is no evidence that any of the above-mentioned activity was illegal. Big game hunting is legal in many parts of the world, and some claim that it can be beneficial to conservation efforts. Johan Calitz Safaris, for instance, writes on their Facebook page that their safaris benefit local communities:
Johan Calitz Safaris offers fair-chase dangerous and plains-game safaris to the discerning hunter in remote wilderness areas in Africa.
Conservation through sustainable utilization in cooperation with local communities and conservation organisations.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:31 July 2015
Updated:24 October 2016
Sporting Classics Daily.   “Anti-Hunters Target Jimmy John’s CEO for Hunting Photos.”
    29 Febrtuary 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

