Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph captures a rare seal with a symmetrical stripe pattern on its pelt.					
On 4 October 2016, the pet and animal-oriented blog The Dodo posted a photograph of a seal with symmetric gray and white markings. The seal was so unusual-looking it prompted some viewers to ask if the photograph was real.
The photograph is legitimate and depicts a ribbon seal, a species of seal known for the striking types of patters on its pelt that drew the attention of The Dodo. The seal in question was seen on the Long Beach Peninsula in Washington, on 16 August 2016.
The photograph was taken by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) and posted to the official Facebook account of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service with the following caption:
We had a rare visit from a ribbon seal on the Long Beach Peninsula on Wednesday. According to NOAA Fisheries Service, which took the photo, the seal appeared to be in good condition and went back into the water. The last known ribbon seal sighting in Washington state was in 2012. Ribbon seals are usually found in the Arctic and Subarctic regions of the North Pacific Ocean, particularly in the Bering Sea and the Sea of Okhotsk.
According to NOAA, ribbon seals spend a lot of time on the open sea and prefer pack ice, away from land, which tends to protect them from predators. It’s unclear what the current population is:
Ribbon seals are very distinctive. Males are dark brown to black with four ribbons of white. females are lighter with less distinctive stripes. The stripes are located around the front shoulders, the neck and the rear section. Young seals are gray and will acquire the distinctive ribbons by the age of four. Ribbon seals have large eyes and small teeth.
While ribbons seals are not currently listed as an endangered species, NOAA is monitoring them. They are threatened by a number of factors, including oil spills, commercial fishing and climate change, which affects their sea ice habitat.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:US Fish and Wildlife Service
Published:21 October 2016
Cotroneo, Christian.   “Rare Seal Has Four Gorgeous Stripes.”
    The Dodo.    4 October 2016.
NOAA. “Ribbon Seal (Histriophoca fasciata).”

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

