Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan has rejected his Nobel Prize Award for Literature.					
On 15 October 2016, the Guard1an web site published an article reporting that renowned singer-songwriter Bob Dylan had rejected the 2016 Nobel Prize in literature recently bestowed upon him:
Bob Dylan, the Nobel laureate has rejected his latest accolade which has gotten the public buzzing.
Bob Dylan did not state reasons for the rejection but has promised a press meeting on Saturday. 
This report first appeared on Guard1an.com, a fake news web site that uses a URL similar to that of a legitimate news source, the UK newspaper The Guardian, in order to fool readers. A disclaimer on Guard1an.com notes that the site is not affiliated with The Guardian:
You are on this website because we believe you have the eyes to see the number one in our name. We are not connected to or linked to any media website or company. 
Bob Dylan was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature on 13 October 2016. While the singer-songwrier has not commented on the award as of this writing, he also has not rejected it:
News broke that Bob Dylan had been awarded the Nobel Prize in literature, thousands of enthusiasts lined up to pay kudos and to thank the Swedish Academy for acknowledging his genius. 
So far, Dylan himself isn’t one of them.
Nearly a week after the announcement, the artist, who just finished two consecutive weekends performing as part of the Desert Trip music festival, has yet to acknowledge the honor, Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy that awards the prize, is reported as saying.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:19 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

