Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump, Jr. said  that if women can't handle harassment in the workplace, they should teach kindergarten.					
On 13 October 2016, the online news publication BuzzFeed posted a recording of comments made by Donald Trump, Jr. when he was a guest on the now-cancelled SiriusXM radio program The Opie & Anthony Show back in 2013. In the segment, Trump, the son of the 2016 Republican presidential nominee, complained about finding women in what had traditionally been a “guys’ place” and said that women who “can’t handle” workplace harassment “don’t belong in the workforce”:
Trump, along with hosts Gregg “Opie” Hughes and Anthony Cumia, were complaining about the presence of women who ruin their enjoyment of men’s environments by complaining about harassment. Trump said:
If you have a guys’ place, you have a guys place. I have a hard time letting go of that. Maybe I’m not gonna have a choice.
If you can’t handle some of the basic stuff that’s become a problem in the workforce today, then you don’t belong in the workforce. Like, you should go maybe teach kindergarten. I think it’s a respectable position.
A spokeswoman for SiriusXM has not responded to our inquiry to verify the recording, but the segment was also posted to YouTube on 1 March 2013. The hosts can be heard in the beginning of the 50-minute broadcast introducing Trump:
The discussion about women and harassment starts at about the 29-minute mark. The recording surfaced as Trump’s father was dealing with repercussions to his campaign after multiple women accused him of having groped them, allegations that began after a recording from 2005 was released in which Trump Sr. could be heard making lewd remarks about women and discussing touching them sexually without their consent.
Despite the pair’s large following, Anthony Cumia was fired from the The Opie & Anthony Show by SiriusXM in 2014 after he went on a racist Twitter rant following an altercation with an African-American woman.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
donald trump jr.
election 2016
+1 more
sexual harassment


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:17 October 2016
Passantino, Jon.   “Trump Jr. Suggested Women Who Can’t Take Harassment ‘Don’t Belong in the Workforce.'”
    Buzzfeed.   13 October 2016.
Chan, Aleksander.   “SiriusXM Host Claims “Cuntrag” Assaulted Him in Racist Twitter Rant.”
    Gawker.   2 July 2014.
Mosendz, Polly.   “Opie and Anthony No More: Inside the Nasty Breakup of Radio’s Most Notorious Shock Jocks.”
   Newsweek.   9 April 2014.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

