Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A man died in a meth lab explosion after attempting to light his own flatulence.							See Example( s )

On 14 February 2016, the entertainment web site The Valley Report published a fake news article claiming that a man had died in a meth lab explosion caused by lighting a flammable bit of flatulence:
A 37-year-old man is dead after his trailer home was destroyed in a meth-lab explosion, caused by him lighting up ‘blue angels’ to amuse his wife.
The man’s wife was found lying naked on the couple’s front yard, reportedly still laughing. “A Blue Angel is when you put a lighter up to your butt and fart on it, making it catch on fire. It’s funny as s—,” explains the mans wife, who claims to be an expert on the subject.
There is no truth to the above-quoted story. The Valley Report, one of many fake news web sites currently operating on the internet, states on a “disclaimer” page that its stories are often “exaggerated,” “embellished,” or simply pure “fiction”, and also offers some sound advice:
Some of these stories my be exaggerated, embellished or an outright work of fiction. Use proper judgment when reading anything on the internet.
In this case, as can probably be inferred by the quotes in this article, the story of a man causing an explosion through his own emissions is a complete work of fiction. The only portion that resembles a fact is that the term “blue angel” does, according to the Urban Dictionary, refer to the “act of igniting one’s flatulence.” Also, the byline on this story (and on all the rest of the articles on The Valley Report) is Dave Weasel, a Los Angeles-based comedian.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Shutterstock
Published:16 February 2016
Updated:25 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

