Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Clowns are planning a "purge night" on Halloween (or the night before).							See Example( s )

On 12 October 2016, the Facebook page “Clown Hunters” published a post warning that clowns may be “planning their own purge the night before Halloween”:
WARNING clowns are allegedly planning their own purge the night before Halloween. Stay inside, keep all pets inside and keep all doors and windows locked.
Share this post with your family and friends!
Despite having all the hallmarks of an opportunistic social media hoax predicated on contemporaneous purported clown sightings, close to half a million users directly shared the post within 48 hours of its appearance. Many of our readers reported receiving the warning via text message or social media platforms:
Apparently their is a clown purge in the Lehigh valley on Oct 30th. I’m locking all my doors and windows and hibernating inside. Fuck that.
— Alyssa Rae Lakatosh (@lillak2121) October 14, 2016
so apparently the clowns are gunna purge the night before halloween , i can’t wait to go clown hunting — Tyler Whalon (@Whalon22) October 14, 2016

@BarsAndMelody meant to be a clown purge so no ?
— Cerys Anthony (@cerysanthonyx) October 14, 2016


Missing from most versions of the rumor were details about how information on the clown purge was obtained, how the clowns might be organizing among themselves, whether the clown purge threat was localized or widespread, or indication that any credible entity believed such a thing was possible or likely. The rumor was a variation on cyclically viral general “purge” rumors spurred on by social media panics in specific areas, often occurring around Halloween.
Although rumors about purges have intermittently popped up and blanketed specific areas in the past, no outbreak of widespread crime has ever followed them. As we noted in a previous article, purge rumors do cause problems — for police fielding reports lodged by people exposed to them:
Police later confirmed [a teenager’s prank sparked the] online “Purge” fears, noting that he had not been charged [with a crime] but they were continuing to investigate.
While police took Purge rumors seriously in Louisville, local media and sources within the Louisville Metro Police Department agree that weekend criminal activity was quite average:
Complete hoax. I am a police officer here and can 100% confirm nothing occurred during the “purge” Fri night in Louisville, KY or neighboring cities that was outside the norm. There were many false reports and unfounded complaints all night, however[.]
Unlike previous viral purge panics, we haven’t been able to find any indication that police in any jurisdiction have even bothered to address the clown purge rumors. During prior outbreaks of “purge” scares, local police typically weighed in to either pledge a close watch or debunk the rumors. Yet in this case, we’ve turned up no such assurances or debunkings from any law enforcement sources.
Cyclical purge rumors are inspired by the Purge series of horror films and their premise of an annual night where all crime is legal. Outside of the movies, our usual collection of criminal activities (including murder) remains illegal, rendering the linchpin motive for any genuine “purge” moot. On or around 24 October 2016 the rumor was regurgitated by TMZ impostor TMZ Breaking, leading many social media users to believe the claim was verified by TMZ. But TMZ Breaking is one of several fake news sites using TMZ‘s name to trick users into believing they’re reading the genuine, original site (to which the other sites have no relation).
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
clown sightings
devil's night
halloween
+3 more
halloween purge
purge
tmzbreaking


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:14 October 2016
Updated:24 October 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

