Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			WNBC received documents proving Donald Trump paid $40 million in federal income tax  in 2013.					
On 10 October 2016, the Baltimore Gazette published an article reporting New York television station WNBC had received leaked copies of tax returns documenting that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump had paid $40 million in federal income tax in 2013:
A leaked copy of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s 2013 federal tax return shows that the billionaire businessman payed over 40 million dollars in federal taxes on earnings of 278 million dollars in the 2013 calendar year. The leaked document stands in sharp contrast to a leaked return from the mid-nineties showing that Trump lost over 900 million and payed nothing in taxes, according to sources.
The leaked tax return, first reported by NBC Affiliate WNBC, was received in the same fashion as the prior leaked return, arriving in a manila envelope with a return address of Trump Towers in New York City. And just as the previous return was verified as authentic by a former accountant of Trump’s responsible for preparing his taxes, so too has the authenticity of this new 2013 document been verified, according to the unnamed source in possession of the documents.
As for charitable donations, Mr. Trump gave just under $27 million, roughly 10 percent of his total income. The vast majority of that went to charities supporting Conservative values including $9.5 million to the Cato Institute and some $8 million to the Wounded Warrior Project.
None of this was true.  The Baltimore Gazette is a fake news site that masquerades as an online newspaper in order to lure readers with clickbait headlines and fabricated stories.
Everything about Baltimore Gazette site is a hallmark of a hastily thrown-together hoax site: the social media buttons don’t link to any online presence, several of the news topic sections are merely placeholders with no content, and the physical address provided in the “contact us” section is a non-existent one that would place the newspaper in the middle of the Lockwood Plaza shopping mall.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:12 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

