Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Michele Bachmann said that Christopher Columbus was the first person to set foot on the North American continent.					
On 10 October 2016, an entertainment Facebook group called “Stop the World, the Teabaggers Want Off” published a meme featuring an image of Michele Bachmann alongside the text of something she supposedly said about the Columbus Day holiday:

Of course I celebrate Columbus Day. He founded America with God’s help. Nobody was here before him. Without Columbus this entire continent would be an empty piece of land. 
This is not a real quote from the former Republican congresswoman (and presidential candidate). “Stop the World, the Teabaggers Want Off” is an entertainment Facebook group that frequently creates fake quotes mocking politicians; Bachmann is apparently one of their favorite targets, as the group has attributed several fake quotes to the former United States representative, including one saying that China kept “illegal Mexicans” out of their country by building the Great Wall of China.
Columbus Day has become an increasingly controversial holiday, as more cities adopt measures to change the name and focus of the holiday to “Indigenous Peoples’ Day” in celebration of the millions who lived on the American continents before their “discovery” by European explorers.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
columbus day
michele bachmann
politics
+1 more
stop the world the teabaggers want off


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:11 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

