Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Actor Robert De Niro blasted Donald Trump in a video meant to encourage people to vote.					
Actor Robert De Niro was among the celebrities tapped to record a neutral message encouraging voters to go to the polls in the November 2016 presidential election, but he apparently went off script to blast the Republican nominee, Donald Trump.
The video was being produced by Anonymous Content (a Los Angeles-based media company) for the #VoteYourFuture campaign, which features a series of videos with celebrities urging people to vote. Each celebrity is filmed answering the question, “What do you care about?” 
DeNiro strayed from the nonpartisan theme and launched into a tirade against Trump with an invective stream including  “punk,” “pig,” “con,” “bozo” and an “embarrassment to this country”:
It makes me so angry that this country has gotten to this point that this fool, this bozo, has wound up where he has. He talks how he wants to punch people in the face? Well, I’d like to punch him in the face. This is somebody that we want for president? I don’t think so. What I care about is the direction of this country, and what I’m very, very worried about is that it might go in the wrong direction with someone like Donald Trump. If you care about your future, vote for it.
A representative from Anonymous Content confirmed that the DeNiro video was deemed unsuitable for inclusion in the campaign because of its partisan content:
The producers felt that they could not include Robert De Niro’s film as part of the campaign and still honor the non-partisan nature, but still believed that this video needed to be shared in some capacity. 
The video did see the light of day, regardless. It was given to the Megyn Kelly-hosted Fox News program, “The Kelly File,” which claimed to have exclusive access to it when they posted it on 8 October 2016.
The full video can be viewed here:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Anonymous Content, screen capture
Published:10 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

