Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Melania Trump wore a "pussy-bow" blouse to the second 2016 presidential debate.							See Example( s )

After the conclusion of the second presidential debate held at Washington University in St. Louis on 9 October 2016, multiple fashionistas identified the fuchsia blouse worn by Melania Trump at that event as an $1,100 silk crepe de chine creation by the fashion giant, Gucci — a style of blouse known as a “pussy bow” (supposedly because the bow at the throat resembles ones commonly tied around cats’ necks).
And as Mashable (and others) pointed out, the choice of blouse may have been poorly-timed, given that an audio tape of Donald Trump’s talking in lewd terms about women had been leaked just days earlier:
The wardrobe selection comes only two days after a 2005 video showed Donald Trump saying, “Grab them by the pussy” when referring to women he predatorily pursued.
Melania’s choice of clothing was in all likelihood a total coincidence. (Or a soon-to-be-fired stylist is smirking somewhere.) The style is a common accoutrement on women’s blouses, and one favored by the likes of former U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and legendary designer Coco Chanel.
Coincidence? Trolling IRL? You decide, America.
An online shopping page shows an identical-looking Gucci blouse selling for $1,100:
The “pussy-bow” blouse is an established style that features a loose tie at the neck of a shirt, usually made of thick material, that allows the wearer to tie it in various ways. It has been in fashion in recent years but has decades of history behind it as an item of women’s apparel.
The campaign said Ms. Trump’s choice of attire was “not intentional”:
Campaign spokeswoman says this was not intentional. https://t.co/Yuka1Pli2j
— Sopan Deb (@SopanDeb) October 10, 2016

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:New York Times, screen capture
Published:10 October 2016
Colbert, Anne. “You Truly Won’t Believe the Name of Melania Trump’s Debate Blouse.”
    Mashable.   9 October 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

