Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton's campaign purchased political ads on the Weather Channel during Hurricane Matthew.					
On 5 October 2016, Politico reported that presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton had been edged out of the news cycle in the final weeks leading up to the November 2016 election by Hurricane Matthew, which (at the time the story was posted) was headed into Florida as a powerful Category 4 storm.
The story, citing an unnamed source “monitoring TV ad buys,” also reported that the Clinton campaign had spent $63,000 for ad time on the Weather Channel to coincide with the brunt of the hurricane’s hitting Florida.
The Politico piece dwelt chiefly on how the two candidates would grapple with being shouldered out of news coverage by Hurricane Matthew, and discussed the gamble Clinton was taking by buying ads during the storm, at the risk of being seen as “crass.” Opponents seized on the story to cast her in just that light.
After political blogs and commentators attacked Clinton for “capitalizing” on the pending disaster, the Clinton campaign released a statement to the media saying that the Weather Channel buy was a very small portion of their advertising outlay:
Earlier in the week, we made changes to our TV ad reservations across hundreds of stations in several battleground states including Florida. Less than 1% of those changes included The Weather Channel. We have requested that stations in Florida delay any of those ads on the Weather Channel until after the storm passes.
After Hurricane Matthew pummeled Haiti, Cuba, the Bahamas, and other Caribbean countries — leaving hundreds dead by even the most conservative estimates — the huge storm turned toward the southeastern United States, prompting the evacuations of millions of people living in Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia as coastal regions flooded. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:7 October 2016
Cheney, Kyle, and Shepard, Steven.   “Clinton, Trump brace for Hurricane Matthew.”
   Politico.   5 October 2016.
Joseph, Cameron.   “Hillary Clinton Campaign Delays Weather Channel Ads After Targeting Hurricane Matthew Audience in Florida.”
    [New York] Daily News.   6 October 2016.
Mazzel, Patricia.   “Clinton Team Asks Weather Channel to Delay TV ads Until After Hurricane Matthew.”
    The Miami Herald.   6 October 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

