Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has died of a "violent heart attack."					
The clickbait world of fake news is driven by the crafting of sensationalist and outrage-provoking headlines posted via social media to drive readers into clicking through on article links and generating advertising revenues for the sites that publish such fabrications.  Fake news sites typically demonstrate few moral compunctions about what lies they set loose on the Internet, and falsely reporting the deaths of celebrities and other notable personages is one unsavory ploy they all too commonly resort to in the quest for clicks.
This trend may now have bottomed out with one such site’s false report (from a fake news generator) that Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has died of a “violent heart attack”:

Donald Trump was pronounced dead today at 11am following what some are describing as a violent heart attack.
The world famous businessman and TV personality was previously treated for minor cardio vascular issues that followed a mild course of antibiotics.  
Fans have already taken to social media to express their emotions with hash tags #RIPTRUMP #TRUMPRIP #TRUMP4EVER.
Donald’s family and friends have asked to be left alone by all press and media at this present time.
PLEASE SHARE THIS ARTICLE TO INFORM EVERYONE OF THE SAD LOSS OF DONALD TRUMP.

We’d rather not bother giving such cruel and callous clickbaiters additional publicity (so we’re not linking to anything here), but enough confused readers have asked us about this fake report that we unfortunately need to debunk it here.
Donald Trump is not dead, as a few seconds’ worth of perusing any U.S. news source quickly reveals.  No one else is reporting his death, only his continuing efforts on the campaign trail.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Snopes Staff

Published:13 August 2016
Updated:5 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

