Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Trump has signed visa-free travel policies for residents of a number of different countries.					
On 27 January 2017, President Trump signed a controversial executive order suspending entry into the U.S. for 90 days of travelers from seven countries “of concern”: Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen. A week later, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order blocking portions of that executive order from being enforced.
The web site USA Television capitalized on that controversy by pumping out a series of nearly identical fake news articles, each holding that President Trump had “signed a visa-free travel policy” for residents of a given country, ostensibly to “strengthen trade” with that country For example, one such article claimed such a policy had been implemented for Pakistani nationals:
The United States President, Donald Trump has signed an executive order to allow all Pakistan nationals travel to the United States without visas.
The new order, serving as a change in visa policy for Pakistanis traveling to the United States, would permit them stay in the U.S for a maximum period of 180 days for Tourism or Business purposes only. Stay over 180 days would therefore require a visa.
Trump says this measure is to strengthen trade between the United States and Pakistan.
However, Pakistanis who hold dual nationality will be banned from entering the United States if their other passport is from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen — the seven Muslim-majority countries “of concern”.
But USA Television also ran an article that said the very same thing about Ghana. And Botswana. And Belarus.
In fact, in separate articles USA Television claimed President Trump had also implemented visa-free travel policies for citizens of Ethiopia, Haiti, Kenya, Jamaica, Malawi, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Liberia, Macau, and the entire Caribbean.
Other fake news sites filled in the gaps, posting articles about the same visa-free travel policy’s being extended to travelers everywhere, from Gambia to Namibia to all of Asia.
If USA Television and their ilk were to be believed, virtually anyone from anywhere in the world could now enter the U.S. for up to six months at a time without the need for obtaining a visa first.
Of course, none of this was true, as U.S. Embassies around the world noted on social media when these fake news stories gained enough traction that officials started receiving inquiries about them:





The United States does currently maintain a Visa Waiver Program (VWP) that allows foreign nationals entry into the U.S. without the need for first obtaining visas. However, VWP participants must meet a series of requirements, they are only allowed visa-free entry for up to 90 (not 180) days, and they must be citizens of one of 38 countries designated by the program. None of the countries mentioned in the fake USA Television articles are among those designated countries, however, and visa requirements for their citizens to enter the U.S. have not changed.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Featured Image:Shutterstock
Published:22 February 2017
Updated:13 April 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

