Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A nightclub in Amsterdam is hosting a "Blood Rave" event with real blood.					
On 3 October 2016, the That Viral Feed web site published an article reporting that a nightclub in Amsterdam was hosting a “Blood Rave” on Halloween, and that the event would see the dumping of real blood on clubgoers:
World’s First ‘Blood Rave’ To Spray Party-Goers With Gallons Of Real Blood On Halloween.
A nightclub in Amsterdam is getting ready to host the world’s first ‘blood rave’ this Halloween, with real blood! According to media reports, Dutch partygoers will be sprayed with gallons of blood from an overhead sprinkler system, based on the opening scene of the 1998 vampire film Blade.
The event’s official Facebook page states: “Blood Rave is a night-life community for likeminded individuals, on a discrete location in Amsterdam.” It also lists a link to an intro video (the scene from Blade), and another link to purchase tickets.
This story is wrong on numerous accounts. 
The event described by That Viral Feed actually occurred in 2015 and didn’t use real blood, although organizers at the time were less than clear about the details of the event and leading several publications to run stories implied that real blood would be sprayed on clubgoers:
The Netherlands will have its first ever “Blood Rave” — a dance party where dancers are sprayed with 5 thousand liters of blood — in Amsterdam on Halloween night.
The event has been posted on Facebook, but with no specifics except for the date — October 31st — so far. A total of 728 guests have indicated that they are going.
One of the organizers, who want to remain anonymous due to the nature of the event, told the AD that this is will be the first blood party in the world and the demand for it is high.
The event’s organizers later released a statement clarifying that the “Blood Rave” would employ synthetic blood, not real blood:
“Halloween is traditionally a day on which people frighten each other in a fun way, and that was also the intention of the organization. The use of real blood is dangerous for the health as well as unethical, we would never do anything that puts health at risk. Although most ticket holders understood the joke, we found it necessary to release a statement.” the organizers write on the Blood Rave Facebook page. “The organization will with ‘synthetic blood’ in its sprinkler system ensure the ultimate Halloween-experience.”
The “Blood Rave” was inspired by the opening sequence of the vampire movie Blade. While the event in Amsterdam was billed as the world’s first, similar events have taken place across the globe, such as the “Blade Rave” at Comic-Con in New York in 2015 (an event that also used synthetic blood).
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
amsterdam
blood rave
halloween
+1 more
that viral feed


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:5 October 2016
Pieters, Janene.   “Blood Rave Organizers to Spray Synthetic Blood: Real Blood Claim a Joke.”
    NL Times.   20 October 2015.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

