Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Preacher Joel Osteen was "horrified" at recently learning that Jesus was crucified.					
On 30 September 2016, the Babylon Bee web site published an article reporting that televangelist pastor Joel Osteen of Houston’s Lakewood Church had only recently learned of (and was traumatized by) the circumstances of Jesus’ death:
As Joel Osteen was being driven to an adjacent town for a business engagement Friday morning, the inspirational preacher’s car radio reportedly began picking up a broadcast of a sermon by pastor John MacArthur, wherein the preacher was describing the gruesome murder and execution of Jesus of Nazareth.
His jaw dropping several inches, the shocked Osteen instructed his driver to pull the car over to the side of the highway so he could process what he just heard for a few minutes.
“Jesus … crucified? But how is that … victorious?” the perplexed pastor exclaimed to no one in particular, his heart still racing from the shocking news he was still trying to process. “Jesus’ followers were promised prosperity and blessing — how could Jesus get killed in such a horrible way? It just doesn’t add up.”
“I wonder if Kenny’s heard about this,” he said suddenly after several minutes of stunned silence, in an apparent reference to fellow Word-Faith minister Kenneth Copeland. “I should probably call him and ask him if he knows who this MacArthur guy is. And what if he is right, and Jesus really was killed in such a painful way, at only thirty-some years old? This just isn’t adding up,” Osteen muttered, shaking his head incredulously as he dialed Copeland on his cell phone.
At publishing time, Osteen was Googling phrases like “was Jesus crucified” and “why didn’t Jesus just speak victory over the cross” on his iPhone, according to sources.
The Babylon Bee article was clearly satirizing Osteen’s embrace of the “prosperity gospel” over a more scripture-based approach to faith. A passage on Osteen’s blog provides an example of the faith-based advice for which the pastor is known:
If you’re going to break old habits and make changes in your life, you’ve got to speak to the giants that mock your victory. No matter what you may be facing, no matter how big those goals and dreams may seem, start changing your words and declare victory. Don’t talk about your mountain; talk to it! Don’t tell the world how big your problems are; tell them how big your God is! Stand in faith, speak victory and move forward in the freedom and blessing God has in store for you!
Although the Babylon Bee piece wasn’t very plausible in a literal sense, it managed to confuse some readers who are familiar with Osteen only in passing. But even among that subset of the audience, those who scrolled down to the bottom of the article might have spotted a disclaimer displayed across the Babylon Bee web site identifying its content as satirical in nature:
The Babylon Bee is Your Trusted Source For Christian News Satire.
Although Babylon Bee ‘s output is typically recognized as satirical by readers, the Joel Osteen crucifixion article wasn’t the first such piece be mistaken for real news.  Other similar works that have befuddled readers include reports that imprisoned abortion provider Kermit Gosnell was a Democratic National Convention (DNC) speaker, the Elevation Church had introduced a baptismal waterslide, and Osteen had apologized for using the name “Jesus” in a sermon.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:3 October 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

