Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton had a teleprompter hidden on her lectern during the first presidential debate.					
A series of conspiracy theories circulated after the first presidential debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump on 26 September 2016, holding that the Democratic nominee had somehow rigged the event. While we were certain that we had finished scraping the bottom of this conspiracy theory barrel after addressing claims that Clinton wore an earpiece, was given the questions in advance, that Lester Holt wore an earpiece, that a Democratic operative secretly removed Clinton’s answers after the debate, and that Clinton and Holt communicated via secret  hand signals, we encountered yet another rumor claiming that Clinton had rigged the debate, this time by using a teleprompter hidden in her lectern:

The video displayed was picked up by several alt-right conspiracy web sites, including EndTheFed.com,who summarized the claim thusly:

There were just too many cameras out of their control for their little plan to work. The question is not only one of Clinton cheating, we all expected that, but of the greater conspiracy which included those responsible for holding the debate and construction of the podiums.
One podium seems to have been outfitted with a special light that the other didn’t have and it appears that the light was functioning as a teleprompter to give Mrs. Clinton answers that she couldn’t keep in her addled old brain. It’s really hard to memorize things or have timely recall when you’re taking heavy medications for a mystery illness.

Hillary Clinton did not have a teleprompter hidden in her lectern.
EndTheFed.com claims that “there were just too many cameras” for this plan to work, yet none of those cameras captured this teleprompter in action. In fact, there are several photographs available of Clinton speaking during the first Presidential debate with this “teleprompter” in clear view, yet none of those images shows anything but light reflected off the wood of her lectern:


The key component of this conspiracy theory is that Clinton’s lectern had a digital display. However, a closeup of this strip of wood shows that it is, in actuality, just a piece of wood, evidenced by the fact that the shadow of the microphone cuts through this “digital display”:
Hillary Clinton did not use a teleprompter during the first presidential debate. The “digital display” on her lectern was merely an artifact of lights used to illuminate the stage reflecting off her lectern top.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
conspiracy theory
debate
donald trump
+3 more
hillary clinton
politics
teleprompter


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:FLICKR
Published:30 September 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

