Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton once lauded the Trans-Pacific Partnership (which she later opposed) as setting the "gold standard" in trade agreements.					
Among the various accusations exchanged by the two candidates during the first presidential debate between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump on 26 September 2016 was Trump’s assertion that Clinton lauded the multi-nation trade agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) as the “gold standard” of such deals:
TRUMP: Your husband signed NAFTA, which was one of the worst things that ever happened to the manufacturing industry.
CLINTON: Well, that’s your opinion. That is your opinion.
TRUMP: You go to New England, you go to Ohio, Pennsylvania, you go anywhere you want, Secretary Clinton, and you will see devastation where manufacture is down 30, 40, sometimes 50 percent. NAFTA is the worst trade deal maybe ever signed anywhere, but certainly ever signed in this country.
And now you want to approve Trans-Pacific Partnership. You were totally in favor of it. Then you heard what I was saying, how bad it is, and you said, I can’t win that debate. But you know that if you did win, you would approve that, and that will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing will ever top NAFTA.
CLINTON: Well, that is just not accurate. I was against it once it was finally negotiated and the terms were laid out. I wrote about that in…
TRUMP: You called it the gold standard. You called it the gold standard of trade deals. You said it’s the finest deal you’ve ever seen.
CLINTON: No.
TRUMP: And then you heard what I said about it, and all of a sudden you were against it.
CLINTON: Well, Donald, I know you live in your own reality, but that is not the facts. The facts are — I did say I hoped it would be a good deal, but when it was negotiated…
TRUMP: Not.
CLINTON: … which I was not responsible for, I concluded it wasn’t. I wrote about that in my book…
What is the TTP? Sometimes described as a “much bigger version of NAFTA” (certain provisions are meant to be improvements on those of NAFTA and would supplant parts of it once TPP takes effect), the agreement covers 12 Asian-Pacific nations, including the U.S., Canada, and Mexico (but not China), drops tariffs, raises environmental protection and human rights standards, and is supported by the Obama administration. It has not yet been ratified by the United States.
As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton spoke favorably of the agreement-in-progress on several occasions. For example:
We want to realize the benefits from greater economic integration. In order to do that, we have to be willing to play. To this end, we are working to ratify a free trade agreement with South Korea, we’re pursuing a regional agreement with the nations of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and we know that that will help create new jobs and opportunities here at home. (8 September 2010)
The United States is also making important progress on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will bring together nine APEC economies in a cutting-edge, next generation trade deal, one that aims to eliminate all trade tariffs by 2015 while improving supply change, saving energy, enhancing business practices both through information technology and green technologies. (9 March 2011)
This TPP sets the gold standard in trade agreements to open free, transparent, fair trade, the kind of environment that has the rule of law and a level playing field. And when negotiated, this agreement will cover 40 percent of the world’s total trade and build in strong protections for workers and the environment. (5 November 2012)
After leaving the State Department in 2013, however, Clinton’s remarks about the TPP became more guarded. “Because TPP negotiations are still ongoing,” she wrote in her 2014 book, Hard Choices, “it makes sense to reserve judgment until we can evaluate the final proposed agreement.” By the time of her October 2015 debate with Democratic rival Bernie Sanders, Clinton was foursquare against it:
I did say, when I was secretary of state, three years ago, that I hoped it would be the gold standard. It was just finally negotiated last week, and in looking at it, it didn’t meet my standards. My standards for more new, good jobs for Americans, for raising wages for Americans. And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, “This will help raise your wages.” And I concluded I could not.
Despite her current opposition to the agreement and her attempts during more than one presidential debate to recast her previous support of it as “hopeful,” the record shows that Clinton spoke glowingly of the TPP on more than one occasion, not least when she praised it in 2012 as setting “the gold standard in trade agreements.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:29 September 2016
Bradner, Eric.   “Clinton’s TPP Controversy: What You Need to Know.”
   CNN.   27 July 2016.
Clinton, Hillary Rodham.   Hard Choices.
   New York: Simon and Schuster, 2014.   ISBN 1-47675-145-5.
Graham, David A.   “Hillary Clinton’s Hard Choice on Free Trade.”
   The Atlantic.   23 April 2015.
Margolis, Jason.   “Hillary Clinton’s Stand on NAFTA and the TPP: It’s Complicated, and Evolving.”
   PRI’s The World.   28 July 2016.
U.S. Department of State.   “Hillary Rodham Clinton: Remarks at the First Senior Officials Meeting for the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum.”
   9 March 2011.
U.S. Department of State.   “Hillary Rodham Clinton: Remarks at Techport Australia.”
   15 November 2012.
U.S. Department of State.   “Hillary Rodham Clinton: Remarks on United States Foreign Policy.”
   8 September 2010.
The Washington Post.   “The First Trump-Clinton Presidential Debate Transcript, Annotated.”
   26 September 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

