Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump has called global warming a "hoax" on multiple occasions.					
Donald Trump’s stated views on global warming have changed over the past seven years or so (we’ll leave it to pundits to judge whether they’ve “evolved” or “devolved” in that time), as exemplified, on the one hand, by his endorsement of a 2009 letter urging the U.S. government to invest in a “clean energy economy” and pass legislation addressing the “immediate challenge” of climate change, and, on the other, by his November 2012 tweet stating that “The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive.” (Contrary to rumor, Trump did not attempt to delete that tweet years after the fact.)
Trump’s current position, as clarified by his campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, in a 27 September 2016 interview with CNN’s Alisyn Camerota, is that climate change exists but is “naturally occurring.”
CAMEROTA: He believes in climate change?
CONWAY: That there are shifts naturally occurring.
CAMEROTA: He doesn’t believe it’s man-made?
CONWAY: Correct.
CAMEROTA: So he believes that the idea that it’s man-made is a hoax?
CONWAY: No, I didn’t say that.
CAMEROTA: I mean, he said it. I’m repeating his tweet. So he believes that that part is a hoax.
CONWAY: He believes that climate change is naturally occurring.
While Conway pointedly evaded questions about Trump’s previously claiming that global warming is a hoax, the candidate himself adamantly denied having made such claims during his first debate against Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in 2016:
CLINTON: “They’ve looked at my plans and they’ve said, OK, if we can do this, and I intend to get it done, we will have 10 million more new jobs, because we will be making investments where we can grow the economy. Take clean energy. Some country is going to be the clean-energy superpower of the 21st century. Donald thinks that climate change is a hoax perpetrated by the Chinese. I think it’s real.”
TRUMP: “I did not. I did not. I do not say that.”
CLINTON: “I think science is real.”
TRUMP: “I do not say that.”
But Trump has, in fact, said just that. Here, from the public record, in his own words, are instances of Donald Trump calling global warming a hoax (and more colorful things):
The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 6, 2012

Ice storm rolls from Texas to Tennessee – I’m in Los Angeles and it’s freezing. Global warming is a total, and very expensive, hoax!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 6, 2013

NBC News just called it the great freeze – coldest weather in years. Is our country still spending money on the GLOBAL WARMING HOAX? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 25, 2014

Snowing in Texas and Louisiana, record setting freezing temperatures throughout the country and beyond. Global warming is an expensive hoax! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2014

Give me clean, beautiful and healthy air – not the same old climate change (global warming) bullshit! I am tired of hearing this nonsense. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2014

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
climate change
climate change denial
donald trump
+2 more
election 2016
global warming


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:28 September 2016
Updated:31 May 2017
Nelson, Louis and Elana Schor.   “Trump Adviser Denies Climate Change Is Manmade.”
    Politico.   27 September 2016.
Revkin, Andrew.   “A Glaring Climate Shift Joins Trump’s Long Line of Flip-Flops.”
    The New York Times.   8 June 2016.
Worland, Justin.  “Donald Trump Supported Addressing Climate Change Before Calling It a ‘Hoax.'”
    Time.   9 June 2016.
New Day (CNN).  “Interview with Kellyanne Conway.”
    27 September 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

