Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump  proclaimed during the first presidential debate that not paying federal taxes made him "smart," then denied having said it.					
On 26 September 2016, presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump faced off for the first of three presidential debates at Hofstra University in New York. In the course of the debate, Clinton accused Trump of refusing to release his tax returns and suggested her opponent’s motivation was that he had something to hide:
 
CLINTON: For 40 years, everyone running for president has released their tax returns. You can go and see nearly, I think, 39, 40 years of our tax returns, but everyone has done it. We know the IRS has made clear there is no prohibition on releasing [returns] when you’re under audit.
So you’ve got to ask yourself, why won’t [Trump] release his tax returns? And I think there may be a couple of reasons. First, maybe he’s not as rich as he says he is. Second, maybe he’s not as charitable as he claims to be. Third, we don’t know all of his business dealings, but we have been told through investigative reporting that he owes about $650 million to Wall Street and foreign banks.
Or maybe he doesn’t want the American people, all of you watching tonight, to know that he’s paid nothing in federal taxes, because the only years that anybody’s ever seen were a couple of years when he had to turn them over to state authorities when he was trying to get a casino license, and they showed he didn’t pay any federal income tax.
TRUMP: That makes me smart.
But immediately after the debate, when questioned by CNN’s Dana Bash, Trump amazingly denied having made that remark:
DANA BASH: My question for you is, first of all, it sounds like you admitted that you hadn’t paid federal taxes and that, that was smart. Is that what you meant to say?
TRUMP: No, I didn’t say that at all. I mean if they say I didn’t, I mean it doesn’t matter. I will say this, I hate the way our government spends our taxes because they are wasting our money. They don’t know what they’re doing. They’re running it so poorly. Whether it’s spent in Iraq or wherever they’re spending it, they are wasting our money. So I do hate the way our government spends our money.
To hold that Trump hadn’t actually said what he had just been recorded saying would require a good deal of semantic contorting, such as claiming that Trump was describing his not releasing his tax returns (rather than his not paying tax) as “smart,” or that Trump meant he hadn’t said that he never paid any federal taxes (even if that was the case in at least some years).
Two more presidential debates are scheduled, one on 9 October 2016 at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, and the last on 19 October 2016 at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
2016 election
debate
donald trump
+3 more
election 2016
hilary clinton
politics


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:YouTube screen capture
Published:28 September 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

