Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A resident of East Texas shared his opinion of the Black Lives Matter movement.							See Example( s )

In August 2016 a photograph of an elderly man from the East Texas city of Tyler, along with a quote attributed to him about the Black Lives Matter movement, was posted online. The combination quickly became a viral hit, buoyed by the ongoing discourse around racism and racial tensions in the United States:
“I don’t get all this ‘Black Lives Matter’ — ‘Blue Lives Matter’ divide. I been around here since ’57 and I never been to jail. All I see now are these young-in’s running around getting shot because they think they can do whatever they want. That’s not how it works, but you can’t tell them that. I know what real racism looks like and I haven’t seen the likes of that ugly face in years. What needs to happen is unity. Respect your fellow man and 99% of the time, they’ll respect you back no matter what you look like. I’m living proof of that.”
(Tyler, Texas)
The image was first shared to the “People of East Texas” Facebook page on 15 August 2016. As with the enormously popular “Humans of New York” Facebook page and web site, “People of East Texas” interviews local residents and then shares highlights from those interviews along with photographs:
People of East Texas (POET) started on August of 2015. In that short period of time POET and it’s contents has taken on a life of its own. We have been featured in a number of publications and media outlets as well as on countless other social media sites. The goal of POET is to make you, the reader, feel anything but indifferent through organic and raw content provided by those that are interviewed for the page.
People of East Texas provided additional information about this particular image in the comments below the post:
To clarify, the city of Tyler did not post this. I am an individual. BLM was not brought up in the conversation at all from the interviewer standpoint. The question I asked was, “If you could give a group of 10,000 people a piece of advice, what would you tell them?” He responded with, “Stop fighting” and then I asked him to elaborate in a very non-leading fashion as I normally do.
With that being said, If I were to come across anyone that felt very strongly in one direction or the other, I would have no problem posting their comments as they state them. Everyone gets a chance. This just happened to be what he wanted to talk about.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:26 September 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

