Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Trump signed an executive order cutting off welfare to "deadbeats, drug addicts and scam artists."					
On 15 February 2017 the Last Line of Defense web site published an article reporting that President Trump had “signed an executive order that will eliminate millions of deadbeats, drug addicts and scam artists from the welfare roles” (an action described as the passage of a “law” in the article’s headline):
No longer will an able-bodied person get free food, liquor, cigarettes, cash and lottery tickets off of the working man’s dime. It has been estimated that for every tax dollar you pay, 91 cents goes to providing free stuff for poor people just so they’ll keep voting Democrat.
No more. EO 125gh2098i265mmn3 reads:
Whereas a person has no physical disability preventing him or her from working, said person and their family will no longer be eligible for free food, cash asistance, section 8 housing or Obamaphones. While the president appreciates that work has been hard for some to obtain, there are jobs, i.e. the 1100 new jobs at Carrier in Indiana.
Americans are reminded that hard work is rewarded and that work equals freedom. Those unable to care for themselves will be deported to their native lands or placed in work camp programs where they can aid their fellow citizens in rebuilding our infrastructure in exchange for food and shelter.
This is not a communist society. Hard work is required.
An obvious clue regarding the report’s lack of veracity was the odd string of numbers purported to be the designator of the executive order under which President Trump’s “law” was supposedly implemented.  (Real executive orders are identified by five-digit numbers.)
This report was a fabrication that originated with The Last Line of Defense (The Resistance), a spoof site whose disclaimer notes that its contents are satirical in nature:
The Resistance may include information from sources that may or may not be reliable and facts that don’t necessarily exist. All articles should be considered satirical and any and all quotes attributed to actual people complete and total baloney. Pictures that represent actual people should be considered altered and not in any way real.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
executive order
last line of defense
+1 more
welfare


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Gage Skidmore / FLICKR
Published:21 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

