Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Charlotte "rioters" will lose all government benefits if caught "looting" during protests after the death of Keith Lamont Scott.					
The shooting of Keith Lamont Scott on 20 September 2016 kicked off protests in Charlotte, North Carolina, events that a clickbait fake news site shamelessly played upon to lure readers into generating advertising revenue for them.
On 21 September 2016, the Baltimore Gazette — a purveyor of fake news, not a real news outlet — published an article reporting that any “rioters” caught looting in Charlotte would permanently lose food stamps and all other government benefits:
According to multiple reports, city officials have announced new measures in an effort to curb the violence sweeping Charlotte since the shooting of Keith Lamont Scott. Any individuals caught rioting, looting, destroying property or otherwise reacting in a violent and unlawful manner will have their government benefits permanently revoked.
According to the local affiliate WBTC, the punishment also applies to minors who might be participating in the ongoing melee. Parents of underage individuals who are captured while engaging in criminal activities related to the rioting will be held fully accountable, and could risk losing state benefits, as well as the custody of their child.
“Parents are responsible for their children. If they are allowing them to engage in lawless behaviors there will be consequences for them as parents.” Charlotte City Official, Wilson Stewart, told reporters during the 30 minute press conference. “Many of the individuals we have detained are high school students. We urge parents out there to know where their children are at all times until tensions are quelled. Have them adhere to the mandatory curfew. Make them aware that participation in looting, destruction of property, and violently demonstrating on any level will come with severe penalties.”
The announcement was made shortly after hundreds of national guardsmen and law enforcement officers took to the streets intent on restoring calm to the city. Whether or not the recent announcement had any impact on the chaos remains to be seen as the riots grind on into their tecond [sic] night.
The article appeared at the height of unrest in Charlotte and echoed genuine comments (not subsequently codified as law) made by a Maryland legislator during unrest in Baltimore following the 2015 death of Freddie Gray.
The false “rioters will lose food stamp and welfare benefits” rumor is a favorite for fake news sites to trot out during periods of protest and demonstrations:
An unnecessary Google search reveals there is no Charlotte “city official” named Wilson Stewart, and the image used to illustrate the article actually depicts an April 2009 G20 summit protest in London rather than September 2016 demonstrations in Charlotte.
In addition to the claim about riots and food stamps, the Baltimore Gazette additionally exploited controversy over recent police shooting incidents by recycling a fake news story from 2014 about an overzealous policeman harming a breastfed baby or her mother. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
baltimore gazette
charlotte
food stamps
+1 more
keith lamont scott


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:23 September 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

