Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Ted Cruz said he'd run as a Democrat against Donald Trump if Hillary Clinton had to drop out of the 2016 presidential race.					
During ongoing controversy and speculation about Hillary Clinton‘s health (following a medical episode at a 9/11 event), the web site Newslo published an article on 13 September 2016 reporting that Republican U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas had pledged to run as a Democrat to defeat Donald Trump if Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton were forced to drop out of the race:
Ted Cruz has left a meeting with Mike Pence without saying whether he will endorse or even vote for Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. The Texas Republican senator and onetime rival of Trump’s has refused to endorse the billionaire. Cruz met privately with Pence in Washington and attended a lunch with the Indiana governor and a number of other Republican senators. Cruz says he had a “good and productive conversation” and a “very good meeting.” He calls Pence a “good man, a friend” and a “strong conservative.”
However, according to a source who attended the meeting, Cruz refused to endorse Trump and, instead, threw a bombshell that left most of the Republican attendees speechless: Ted Cruz plans to run against Donald Trump after all. Truth be told, he didn’t vow to do it, he merely suggested the possibility. And according to the source, the only way that would ever be possible is if it turns out the rumors are true and Hillary Clinton is prevented form running against Trump on account of her deteriorating health.
Asked to verify the allegations made by one of the attendees, who requested anonymity, Cruz initially seemed genuinely surprised, but later said, “I figured it would get out sooner or later. Might as well be sooner.” “It’s true,” the Texas Republican senator revealed, “I did make that proposition. And I made it for one simple reason – there is no way I am giving up on stopping Donald Trump from running this great country into the ground. And if I have to switch over to the Democrats to do it, then so be it.”
Like all items published by Newslo (and sister sites Religionlo and Politicalo), the article began with factual introduction before introducing subsequent untruths. On 13 September 2016 Cruz did meet with Trump’s running mate Mike Pence, but the portion of the article holding that he pledged to run as a Democrat was wholly embellished.
All articles Newslo’s three fake news sites (often appearing on Facebook items from the Politicops domain) included a “show facts” or “hide facts” button. However, all items displayed in “hide facts” mode by default, ensuring new visitors rarely used or were aware the option:
 
Newslo, Politicalo and Religionlo items typically follow the same template for every article, featuring a paragraph consisting of accurate information and the balance embellishments upon that grain of truth. 
Prior Newslo fabrications included claims Chris Christie said a female Viagra would lead to increased “lesbianism” and that he voted down a gender pay parity bill due to religious reasons, an Alabama politician proposed saliva-based “hunger tests” for food stamp recipients, Cruz said the death of Antonin Scalia was oddly timed, Pat Robertson claimed David Bowie was still alive after his death, Mike Pence opined that if abortion was allowed in instances of rape that women would attempt to “get raped” in order to obtain an abortion, and father of Brock Turner lamented the lack of punishment for the victim in his son’s case. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
election 2016
hillary clinton
+3 more
newslo
politicops
ted cruz


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:15 September 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

