Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A transcript reproduces '60 Minutes' commentator Andy Rooney's explaining his political views.							See Example( s )

Andy Rooney, the 60 Minutes commentator “known to generations for his wry, humorous and contentious television essays” passed away in 2011 at the age of 92. Although the curmudgeonly commentator Andy Rooney may have delivered some vituperative essays during his time (such as a 2003 piece on
French politics), the item reproduced above supposedly elaborating on his own politics was not his creation.
The text quoted above was too reactionary in tone even for the acerbic Rooney, and the language used didn’t sound like him. (“Shoot your sorry ass” just wasn’t the kind of phrase Andy Rooney employed on television.) Just to be thorough, we checked the transcripts of all of Andy Rooney’s 60 Minutes pieces from the previous ten years, and nothing like this item turned up among them.
Moreover, Andy Rooney himself denied that this polemic originated with him, saying in 2003 that:
About a year ago, I became aware of a more serious theft of my name and it is so hurtful to my reputation that it calls for legal action against the thief. Hundreds of people have written asking if I really wrote the 20 detestable remarks made under my name that have had such wide circulation on the Internet.
Some of the remarks, which I will not repeat here, are viciously racist and the spirit of the whole thing is nasty, mean and totally inconsistent with my philosophy of life. It is apparent that the list of comments has been read by hundreds of thousands of Americans, many of whom must believe that it accurately represents opinions of mine that I don’t dare express in my column or on television. It is seriously damaging to my reputation.
Mr. Rooney disclaimed the above-quoted piece again in his 60 Minutes segment of 23 October 2005, saying of it:
There’s a collection of racist and sexist remarks on the Internet under a picture of me with the caption ‘ANDY ROONEY SAID ON 60 MINUTES.’ If I could find the person who did write it using my name I would sue him.
And he denied it yet again to the Associated Press in December 2006:
Rooney said that a racist commentary falsely attributed to him is circulating over the Internet and through e-mails. The “60 Minutes” essayist wants anyone who might have seen it to know he had nothing to do with it.
“I suppose it’s not important, but I hate the fact that people think I’ve been writing these things,” he told The Associated Press. “That’s hurtful to me.”
The missive, which Rooney said had been passed along to him via e-mail several times, is a list of several anti-minority statements. One of the printable ones: “I have the right not to be tolerant of others because they are different, weird or tick me off.”
The final two items on the list are probably a good tipoff that either this collection was written (by an as-yet unidentified author) as a parody of the “A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney” spots on 60 Minutes or that someone appended Andy Rooney’s name to an unattributed piece because it “seemed like something he would say.” Either way, whoever created this version appears to have lifted some parts from an earlier piece known as “Yes, I Guess I am A BAD American” that is falsely credited to comedian George Carlin.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Featured Image:Wikimedia Commons
Published:21 April 2003
Updated:21 February 2017
Rooney, Andy.   “60 Minutes: Weekly Commentary.”
CBS.   23 October 2005.
Rooney, Andy.   “My Name’s Been Stolen.”
Sacramento Bee.   24 July 2003.
Associated Press.   “Andy Rooney: Racist Commentary Is a Hoax.”
CNN.com.   5 December 2006.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

