Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Romanian newspaperman Cornel Nistorescu penned a pro-America editorial immediately after the 9/11 terrorist attacks.							See Example( s )

Americans were pleased, gratified, and fascinated when newspapers in other countries ran strongly pro-American articles in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, as indicated by the resurgence of interest in Canadian Gordon Sinclair‘s 28-year-old radio broadcast and the tremendous amount of attention paid to the Romanian newspaper editorial quoted above.  Since the editorial as circulated via e-mail was undated, untitled, and unsigned; contained no publication information whatsoever; and was a translation of an article not originally printed in English, tracking it to its source was not an easy task back in October of 2001.
This editorial was written by Mr. Cornel Nistorescu, managing editor of the Romanian newspaper Evenimentul Zilei, in which his piece was published under the title “Cîntarea Americii” (translated into English as “Ode to America”) on 24 September 2001.
The Associated Press reported of Mr. Nistorescu that:

Nistorescu, managing director of the daily newspaper Evenimentul Zilei — News of the Day — published his editorial Sept 24, two days after watching a celebrity telethon in New York for victims of the attacks.
Like his other columns, “Ode to America” was meant for domestic consumption. No one knows when — or how — the article first reached the other side of the Atlantic. But Nistorescu figures it began when someone pulled it off the English-language version of his daily’s Web page and sent it to a friend. 
Since then, thousands of Americans at home and expats around the world have e-mailed it to friends, saying it captured their nation’s spirit. It has been read out to U.S. soldiers and on radio talk shows and posted on U.S. Web sites. 
Nistorescu says he had no idea his “Ode to America” would resonate so far away.
Nistorescu remains surprised and touched by the success of the piece, one of thousands he has penned in a more than 20-year career. 
“It is all about the American spirit and how freedom cannot be crushed,” he says.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:12 October 2001
Updated:12 September 2016
Mutler, Allison.   “Editorial by Romanian Journalist About the American Spirit Strikes Chord in U.S.”
    Associated Press.   18 October 2001.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

