Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A black-and-white photograph shows children playing on  frighteningly dangerous (by modern standards)  playground equipment in a public park.					
In September 2016, a grainy, black-and-white image began circulating on Facebook showing children playing on what appears, by modern standards, to be a very unsafe playground. The image, showing a playground featuring ladders reaching up to high parallel bars and swings, with children sitting atop and hanging from the metal bars — but no padding (or any other safety features) of any kind on or under the bars — was shared on Facebook with captions such as “Not a helicopter parent in sight”:
The image, though seemingly surreal, is a legitimate photograph of a turn-of-the-century Texas playground. It can be viewed on the web page of the Dallas Public Library with a description noting that it captures “Children playing on iron pole playground equipment at Trinity Play Park.”
According to the city’s listing of municipal parks and historical records, Trinity Play Park is no longer in existence. Historical documents archived at the Dallas Municipal Archives show that the city officially acquired the 4.5-acre park, originally located on Corinth and Cockrell street, for $8,500 in 1909.
The park served an important community function, acting as a haven for children whose parents were at work, according to the book Historic Dallas Parks by Dallas city archivist John Slate:
Some parks have important social significance, such as Trinity Play Park with its pioneering after-school program in the 1910s that cared for children whose parents worked nearby in the cotton mills. Many of the parks served as distribution sites for free milk for children, an early childhood health program put on privately by women’s groups in the city.
Trinity Play Park was renamed Fretz Park in honor of a founding city parks board member, Emil Fretz, in 1927. Fretz was key in establishing the park, which was eventually relocated to its current location on Belt Line Road in Dallas.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
dallas
historical artifacts
history
+1 more
Photographs


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Dallas Public Library archives
Published:12 September 2016
Updated:22 March 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

