Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			In 2013, Donald Trump extended his best wishes to all, even the "haters and losers," via Twitter on the anniversary of 9/11.					
On 11 September 2016, an image purportedly showing a tweet posted by Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump three years earlier, in which he extended his best wishes to everyone &mdash even “haters and losers” — on the anniversary of 9/11 was recirculated online
 
This message was posted to Trump’s Twitter account on 11 September 2013 and was available until two years later, when Trump, who was a leading contender among Republican presidential candidates at the time, finally deleted the tweet prior to the 2015 anniversary of the 9/11 attacks:
Two years ago, Donald Trump’s Twitter account sent a public message out to the world to “even the haters and losers” — on September 11, the twelve-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.
Trump’s tweet read: “I would like to extend my best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, September 11th.”
But with Trump currently leading the pack of Republican presidential candidates, the original tweet from the morning of September 11, 2013 vanished from his account.
Although it is no longer available in Trump’s current Twitter feed, the tweet was mentioned in contemporaneous news reports, and Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks also confirmed that the message was authentic to Politico shortly after it was deleted in 2015:
“The tweet is from several years ago,” Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said, when reached by POLITICO for explanation.
Furthermore, while the original tweet has been deleted, Trump retweeted his “haters and losers” message, and that retweet is still viewable in his Twitter timeline:
“@realDonaldTrump: I would like to extend my best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, September 11th.”
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 12, 2013

Trump frequently mentions the “haters and losers” on Twitter, and he has used the term during celebratory messages for holidays such as Easter, Memorial Day, Father’s Day and the Fourth of July:
 
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
9/11
donald trump
election 2016
+1 more
september 911


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:12 September 2016
Gass, Nick.   “Trump’s ‘Haters and Losers’ Sept. 11 Tweet Vanishes.”
    Politico.   11 September 2015.
Flores, Rena.   “Donald Trump’s 9/11 ‘Haters and Losers’ Tweet Deleted.”
    CBS News.   11 September 2015.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

