Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs show a New Jersey monument to the victims of 9/11 that was donated by Russia.					
The monument displayed in emailed photographs, officially entitled “To the Struggle Against World Terrorism” (but also known as “The Memorial at Harbor View Park” or the “Tear Drop Memorial”), was dedicated at the northeast corner of Bayonne Peninsula in New Jersey on 11 September 2006, the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the United States:

I had never heard of this before receiving it. Why didn’t the press report it? 

This is the “TEAR DROP”  made and installed by the Russians to honor those who died in 9 11 and a statement against terrorism.  It is very impressive.  The tear drop is lined up with the Statue of Liberty.

Gift from the people of Russia…….”Monument to the struggle against world terrorism, artist Zurab Tesereteii”



….it is an impressive memorial and statement against terrorism.

The walkway is made of stones.


Names of the persons killed on 9 11 are inscribed on the base like the Vietnam Memorial wall.  It was a cold and windy day but well worth the drive to see.  It is down in the shipping yards across from “The Lady”.

The monument was the work of Russian artist Zurab Tsereteli, whose inspiration was described thusly in a brochure about the monument:

“To the Struggle Against World Terrorism” was conceived as the events of 9/11 unfolded and Russian artist Zurab Tsereteli walked the streets of Moscow. Struck by the outpouring of grief he observed, a memorial with an image of a tear formed in his mind. Shortly after the attacks, Tsereteli visited ground zero and looked to New Jersey’s waterfront for an appropriate site for a monument honoring victims of the World Trade Center terrorist attacks.
Bayonne was a fitting location; the city was an arrival point for many New York City evacuees on 9/11, a staging area for rescuers, and offered a direct view of the Statue of Liberty and the former World Trade Center towers.
A gift from Tsereteli and the Russian people, the memorial is made of steel sheathed in bronze. Standing 100 feet high, its center contains a jagged tear. In it hangs a 40-foot stainless steel teardrop, representing sadness and grief over the loss of life, but also hope for a future free from terror. Etched in granite on an 11-sided base are the names of the nearly 3,000 killed in the 1993 World Trade Center bombings and terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.

Photographs of the monument’s construction (as well as the finished version of the memorial) can be viewed at the 911 Monument web site.  A portfolio of Tsereteli’s other works around the world is also available on The New Yorker‘s web site.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:15 March 2009
Updated:22 September 2017
Applebone, Peter.   “A Jersey City Teardrop for 9/11, Or a 10-Story Embarrassment?”
    The New York Times.   30 June 2004.
Finnegan, William.   “Monument.”
    The New Yorker.   25 June 2007.
Associated Press.   “Bogus Names Feared on New Jersey Sept. 11 Monument.”
    FOX News.   28 July 2006.
Associated Press.   “9/11 Memorial in New Jersey Honors 40 People Too Many.”
    The New York Times.   10 September 2006.
CNN.   “Controversial 9/11 Memorial.”
    21 July 2004.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

