Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Prophylactic maker Durex is producing an eggplant-flavored condom.					
On 5 September 2016, the official Twitter account for the Durex brand of condoms posted a message seemingly announcing the arrival of the new eggplant-flavored product:
#BreakingNews: We’re launching an exciting new savoury #condom range – Eggplant flavour! ? #CondomEmoji pic.twitter.com/idA07EaiXC
— Durex Global (@durex) September 5, 2016

Although the tweet really issued from Durex, its content was rather tongue in cheek. The message was intended to garner the attention of customers and enlist them in the push for the creation a new condom emoji to promote safe sex, as Durex soon explained: 

You got us, there’s no Eggplant condom! But why no #CondomEmoji? RT if you agree emoji makers should make one! pic.twitter.com/6H6AU6zkJ6
— Durex Global (@durex) September 5, 2016


The “eggplant” emoji is occasionally used as a reference to male genitalia. While this substitution may work for some sexting purposes, Durex launched a campaign in November 2015 with the hopes of creating an official safe sex condom emoji:
Durex®, a leading global sexual well-being brand has launched a worldwide campaign calling for the creation of the world’s first official safe sex condom emojis. Emojis are a crucial part of how young couples connect, and research suggests that the creation of official safe sex emojis are vital to inserting messages around protection into their sexual conversations.
In light of this research, the Durex brand is asking 1 million people to use and share the hashtag #CondomEmoji to represent their support of the creation of the world’s first official safe sex emojis by the Unicode Consortium.
Global research commissioned by the Durex* brand further reveals that emojis play a vital role in young people’s conversations around sex. This research also unearthed some concerning data around the rise in apathy towards engaging in safer sexual practices:
o 80% of 18-25 year olds find it easier to express themselves using emojis and more than half of respondents regularly using emojis when discussing sex
o 84% of 18-25 year olds said they feel more comfortable talking about sex using emojis
o More than one-third of 18- to 25-year-olds claim not to care about safe sex, and nearly half think that HIV will never affect them or their friends
“In light of this research, the Durex brand is asking 1 million people to use and share the hashtag #CondomEmoji to represent their support of the creation of the world’s first official safe sex emojis by the Unicode Consortium,” says Karen Chisholm, Marketing Director, Durex USA. “Emojis of this sort will enable young people to overcome embarrassment around the discussion of safe sex, encourage conversation and raise awareness of the importance of using condoms in protecting against sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV and AIDS.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:8 September 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

