Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A viral video shows a newborn baby delivered inside an intact amniotic sac.							See Example( s )

Fewer than one in 80,000 pregnancies result in what is called an “en caul” birth, meaning the newborn is delivered still encased in its amniotic sac (traditionally known as a “caul”) because normally the sac ruptures and releases amniotic fluid  (i.e., the mother’s “water breaks”) well before birth occurs. En caul deliveries are rare enough that some obstetricians may never attend one in their entire careers, though not so rare as to prevent multiple videos of such births from going viral on the Internet.
The example above was shot in the Santa Casa de Misericórdia de Barretos hospital, Sao Paulo, Brazil by a nurse, Giselinha Correa, who posted it to YouTube on 4 August 2016 and on her Facebook page two days later. The New York Times provided this translation of her caption (from the original Portuguese):
“Look what I had the honor of filming in my dear Santa House Mercy,” the nurse, Gih Flor de Lis, wrote, explaining that the newborn was actually one of a set of twins, the first of whom was delivered vaginally.
“We were waiting to stabilize the first baby and the second came softly, in fact, look there that beautiful!!! Historic moment! !!!” she wrote in the post.
Other online videos capturing en caul births include one comprising a series of photographs of an infant born prematurely at 26 weeks at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles:

And another of a baby born in Spain who was sliced out of his amniotic sac as a cell phone camera rolled:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Featured Image:Facebook
Published:7 September 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

