Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			George Soros said that he funded the Black Lives Matter movement because he wanted to 'bring down the United States' and 'the black community is the easiest to manipulate.'					
In August 2016, a graphic featuring a picture of billionaire George Soros next to a quote ostensibly uttered by him about his goal to “bring down the United States by funding Black Hate groups” began circulating via social media:
Although this image indicated that the business magnate and political activist made this comment during the course of an interview with the Germany newspaper Bild in September 2014, we found no evidence that any such interview took place. The putative statement from Soros about his funding “Black Hate groups”  does not appear in the newspaper’s archives for September 2014 (or any other month), nor did we find reference to it in any other credible publication.
The first iteration of this quote we could uncover appeared on the Tumblr page “Overpasses for America” in an article published on 19 August 2016, nearly two years after Soros allegedly issued these inflammatory remarks.
Aside from the suspicious lack of documentation for this alleged Soros quote, it’s highly unlikely that the billionaire would be so open and candid about a plan to fund “Black Hate groups,” manipulate the black community, and bring down the United States in a newspaper interview.  (It also makes little sense for Soros, one of the world’s richest people and most successful capitalists, to be motivated to dismantle the nation that is home to the planet’s largest economy.)
Fake quotes are frequently accompanied by false source information in order to make them appear legitimate. This tactic has also been used for viral quotes ostensibly uttered by Presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, for example: Trump was accused of saying that Republicans were the “dumbest group of voters” during an interview with People, and Clinton was accused of saying the same of Democratic voters in a 2005 book. Yet neither Clinton nor Trump made such comments. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:7 September 2016
Updated:15 August 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

