Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Aerial spraying of an insecticide targeting Zika-carrying mosquitoes in South Carolina resulted in the deaths of millions of bees.							See Example( s )

Officials in Dorchester County, South Carolina have issued an apology for aerial insecticide spraying that inadvertently killed millions of honeybees in the area, WCBD-TV reported on 1 September 2016. Beekeepers in the town of Summerville say they lost scores of active hives almost instantly after spraying began early in the morning on 28 August. 
The insecticide, naled (brand name Trumpet), is recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency for the control of the mosquito species Aedes aegypti, which carries the Zika virus. The insecticide is also highly toxic to bees. Administrators in Dorchester County (where there have been four confirmed diagnoses of Zika infection to date) said they followed guidelines for its proper use, including spraying before dawn to reduce exposure of the bee population and notifying local residents in advance.
Locals say they weren’t notified in advance of the aerial spraying, however. Beekeeper Juanita Stanley told reporters:
That’s true when they sprayed by trucks. But nobody called me about the aerial spraying; nobody told me at all.
Stanley estimates she lost more than 3 million bees, and says she’ll have to destroy the contaminated honey and equipment and start over.
 
Researchers at Clemson University took honey and soil samples from Stanley’s farm for further analysis.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Animal Welfare
bees
south carolina
+1 more
zika virus


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:2 September 2016
LaMotte, Sandee.  “Zika Spraying Kills Millions of Honeybees.”
   CNN.  2 September 2016.
WCBD-TV.  “Millions of Bees Killed in Summerville.”
   1 September 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

