Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Controversial San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick has worn socks depicting police officers as pigs.							See Example( s )

San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who protested racial oppression by refusing to stand for the national anthem and aligned himself with radical icons Malcolm X and Fidel Castro by wearing a T-shirt bearing their likenesses, has waded into political controversy yet again by being photographed wearing socks adorned by cartoon images of pigs wearing police caps. The photos, some of which are said to date from early August 2016, circulated widely via social media, capturing the attention of the National Association of Police Organizations, whose executive director, Bill Johnson, said in a statement to USA Today:
It’s just ridiculous that the same league that prohibits the Dallas [Cowboys] football club from honoring the slain officers in their community with their uniforms stands silent when Kaepernick is dishonoring police officers with what he’s wearing on the field.
“I think the league is in a downward spiral regarding their obligations to the public under [commissioner] Roger Goodell, and this is just another example of that.
In turn, Kaepernick acknowledged via Instagram that he had, in fact, worn the socks during training, but said they were only intended to make a statement about “rogue cops”: 
A photo posted by colin kaepernick (@kaepernick7) on Sep 1, 2016 at 11:52am PDT

The NFL exercises some control over what players are allowed to wear during practice sessions and can take corrective action, but told USA Today that the league will not comment on the matter of Kaepernick’s socks until it had communicated with the 49ers organization.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
colin kaepernick
football
police
+1 more
racism


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Featured Image:Facebook
Published:1 September 2016
Fucillo, David.  “Colin Kaepernick Explains His Decision to Wear Socks with Pigs in Cop Hats.”
   SB Nation.  1 September 2016.
Peter, Josh.  “Head of Police Organization: Colin Kaepernick’s Socks ‘Disrespectful’ and NFL at Fault.”
   USA Today.  1 September 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

