Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The former Florida representative and wrote an angry column about 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick on his personal blog.					
Allen West, a conservative commentator and former Florida legislator, wrote a post on his personal blog blasting NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick. In the post, dated 28 August 2016, West said that the San Francisco 49ers QB should have kept his opinions to himself:
However, I would recommend a simple scripture from the wise King Solomon for Mr. Kaepernick, Proverbs 17:28 (NIV): “Even fools are thought wise if they keep silent, and discerning if they hold their tongues.”
Or, as the old folks down South would say, “best for a stupid person to keep their mouth shut and not open it and let everyone know they are.”
West then went on to list several Democratic lawmakers, including President Barack Obama, whom he considered to be oppressing African-Americans:
Perhaps you didn’t know Barack Obama was the one who cancelled the DC school voucher program for deserving young black children — talk about oppression. Is that something you’re willing to do, or is it just too difficult?
Kaepernick refused to stand during the playing of the U.S. national anthem out of protest during an exhibition game on 26 August 2016, explaining that:
I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color. To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.
Kaepernick’s act of protest has sparked an outpouring of online controversy and rumors. The NFL and Kaepernick’s team have been generally supportive of the player, saying that he isn’t required to participate in pre-game ceremonies and that they value freedom of speech.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
football
nfl
protest
+1 more
sports


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:1 September 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

