Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Krispy Kreme is giving free doughnuts to anyone who talks or dresses like a pirate on 19 September 2016.					
Popular doughnut chain Krispy Kreme is giving a free doughnut to any customer who talks like a pirate on International Pirate Day, 19 September 2016. This year, the parody holiday falls on a Monday.
According to the chain’s web site, Krispy Kreme outlets will hand out a free glazed doughnuts to any customer who utters a piratical phrase such as “arrr, matey.” But those who go the extra mile and dress like sea marauders will get a full box of glazed doughnuts:
Saturday, September 19, any buccaneer to enter a participating Krispy Kreme and talk like a pirate gets one FREE Original Glazed® doughnut. To the landlubber who dares to wear full pirate attire goes a bounty of one FREE dozen Original Glazed doughnuts. Offer good on International Talk Like a Pirate Day, September 19th, only. At participating Australia, US and Canadian locations.
Krispy Kreme cautions that customers are not allowed to bring weapons into their stores, but they do encourage suggested costume items such eye patches; pirate hats, pirate flags, bandannas, peg legs and pirate shirts.
On the chain’s Facebook page, they confirmed the giveaway would continue this year, with this update to the rules:
Dress as a pirate (have to have three items to be considered being pirate or what’s new is to use our Snapchat geofilter available near all of our 300+ locations to count as dressing like a pirate).
The Talk Like a Pirate Day free doughnut giveaway has become a yearly tradition at Krispy Kreme. Be sure to avoid disappointment by checking their web site for participating stores before setting out in buccaneer garb.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:YouTube screen capture
Published:1 September 2016
Updated:3 September 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

