Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game.							See Example( s )

there is a rumor going around that the creators of pokemon go are creating a harry potter version of it. where you hunt for horcrux's and go to classes etc. i thought it was confirmed but perhaps not. if you can find out if this is true or not that'd be great!!
Augmented reality game Pokémon Go was an instant hit after it was released in summer 2016.  The fad led to rumor after rumor, including the potential for a Hogwarts-themed version of the game dubbed “Harry Potter Go.”
What began as speculative memes and petitions developed into solid rumors that Niantic immediately decided to build upon its success by releasing a Harry Potter variant. Before long, the buzz transcended social media to reach news media, with reports that Harry Potter Go was set for a 2017 release. Some articles simply speculated, but outlets like Hello Giggles and NME reported in July 2016 that “Harry Potter Go” was definitely, well, a go:
The creators of Pokémon Go are developing a Harry Potter version of the game.
Niantic have announced that they will be making Harry Potter Go following the success of their Pokémon game.
Since over 15 million users worldwide have downloaded Pokémon Go, fans of the J.K. Rowling books and films have been petitioning Warner Bros to create a Harry Potter game.
Hello Giggles reports that Niantic’s senior developer Marcus Figueroa said the company had decided to create the game as “the demand for this title was absolutely insane, so we figured we’d give it a shot.”
The story seems to have first appeared on JTXHNews, which referenced an apparently nonexistent interview with gaming outlet IGN:
Niantic’s senior developer Marcus Figueroa announced the new project in an interview with IGN
We have acquired the rights for the app. The demand for this title was absolutely insane, so we figured we’d give it a shot. If we’re lucky we might see a launch by early 2017, but it’s hard to tell this early in the project.
When pressed for details, Figueroa had this to say
We want to do something with schools of witchcraft and wizardry, similar to pokestops in Pokemon GO. As wells a quest system, and possibly large scale completely interactive events, but no promises. That’s all I can say.
JTHXNews appears visually identical to hoax purveyors that spread viral fabrications claiming that celebrities are moving to (or experiencing flat tires in) small towns across Canada and the United States.
On the same day NME reported that Harry Potter Go was in development, Gizmodo pointed out that no record of a “Marcus Figeroa” at Niantic exists, and no such announcement appeared anywhere other than a fake news outlet. Niantic made no such announcement in July or August 2016, and did not indicate that any plans for “Harry Potter Go” were in even the earliest planning stages.
However, that doesn’t rule out a Harry Potter Go game eventually appearing, as Pokémon Go was first conceived as an April Fool’s Day hoax in 2014.
On 8 November 2017, the “hoax” became reality when Niantic announced that it would be releasing a Pokémon Go-type augmented reality game for Harry Potter enthusiasts. The game will be called “Harry Potter: Wizards Unite”:
We’re incredibly excited to announce this next step in the evolution of AR mobile entertainment. With Harry Potter: Wizards Unite, players that have been dreaming of becoming real life Wizards will finally get the chance to experience J.K. Rowling’s Wizarding World. Players will learn spells, explore their real world neighborhoods and cities to discover & fight legendary beasts and team up with others to take down powerful enemies. We’re thrilled to partner with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, and WB Games San Francisco’s development team to bring this magical and beloved series to life in a brand new way. Harry Potter: Wizards Unite will leverage the full stack of the Niantic Platform while also providing an opportunity to pioneer all new technology and gameplay mechanics. 
While details remain sketchy so far, we have updated the rating on this page from “False” to “True” to update the new (augmented) reality.
Updated to reflect rating change from "True" to "False" after Niantic's announcement that there will be a Harry Potter-themed game.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
harry potter go
hoaxes
jthxnews
+2 more
niantic
pokemon go


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:31 August 2016
Updated:8 November 2017
Boyd, Brittany.   “OMG! There’s Going To Be A “Harry Potter Go” Game!”
    Hello Giggles.   30 July 2016.
Daly, Rhian.   “Pokémon Go Creators Are Working On A Harry Potter Go Game.”
    NME.   31 July 2016.
Haikel, Dominique.   “A Harry Potter Version Of Pokémon Go Might Be Happening: Here Are More Mashups We’re Dying to Play.”
    E!.   21 July 2016.
Jacomina, Kristina.   “Pokemon Go: Niantic To Develop Harry Potter App Next? Details Here!”
    Morning Ledger.   20 July 2016.
Starkey, Adam.   “There’s A Harry Potter Version Of Pokemon Go On The Way Apparently.”
    Metro.co.uk.   31 July 2016.
Velocci, Carli.   “No, Niantic Isn’t Making A Harry Potter Version Of Pokémon Go.”
    Gizmodo.   31 July 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

