Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a praying mantis after it killed a hummingbird.							See Example( s )

A photograph purportedly showing a praying mantis that had just killed a hummingbird was recirculated on social media in August 2016, accompanied by a message that warned bird lovers to watch out for the dangerous insect:

BIRD LOVERS BE AWARE……
This is NOT a pleasant sight but let me tell you…I’ve witnessed it twice. Most people are surprised to learn that the praying mantis will successfully capture, kill, and eat a hummingbird! Typically the insect will position itself on a plant or a hummingbird feeder to which it observes a hummingbird coming repeatedly. Its lightning-fast strike often assures it of success. Because of the relative size difference, it make take over a day for the bird to be consumed. While praying mantis are very beneficial insects in a garden, they should NOT be allowed on hummingbird feeders!
The image displayed here is legitimate. The photograph was taken by Sharon Fullingim, and was originally published by National Geographic in the magazine’s “Your Shot” section in September 2009:
I’ve heard of birds eating spiders and spiders eating birds–but who knew that praying mantises can catch hummingbirds! The photo here proves mantises can turn the tables on birds.
[…]
“Like many bird watchers in our area, we keep hummingbird feeders filled in our front yard, from April until October,” says Sharon Fullingim, who submitted the photo to “Your Shot.” “Black chinned, broad tailed, rufous, and calliope hummingbirds visit them, and I couldn’t believe my eyes when I was greeted with this shot this week. I’ve seen the mantis hanging around the feeders before, but didn’t quite believe it would ever ‘score’ lunch!”
While there are several images showing praying mantises killing hummingbirds on the internet, these photographs stir up skepticism. However, these attacks have been caught on video:

According to the National Audubon Society, mantids likely hang around hummingbird feeders in order to catch bees and wasps that are attracted to the sugary water. However, if the mantid is hungry enough, it may decide to attack a hummingbird:
Hummingbirds tend to be about 4 inches long (though some species, like the Giant Hummingbird, are twice that size), while bees and wasps are about half an inch long. That makes hummingbirds eight times bigger than what a mantid usually eats.
Some of a mantises favorite meals are drawn to the sugary water of the hummingbird feeder, so feeders are a great place for mantids to await their prey.
While a praying mantis is certainly capable of killing a hummingbird, the National Audubon Society assures readers that it is a rare event, and can be prevented by placing feeders away from shrubbery or trees, or by placing a cover over them.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Bugs
hummingbirds
nature
+1 more
praying mantis


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:30 August 2016
Verchot, Manon.   “Praying Mantis vs. Hummingbird.”
    National Audubon Societ.   8 October 2014.
Braun, David.   “Praying Mantis Catches Hummingbird Picture.”
    National Geographic.   10 Septebmber 2009.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

