Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			CNN showed an altered version of a tweet written by Donald Trump during a news segment.							See Example( s )

During the CNN news program “Newsroom” on 28 August 2016, the cable news station showed a graphic image quoting a tweet authored by Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump — but the graphic aired by CNN was missing an insult Trump habitually includes when talking about his opponent, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton:
I think that both candidates, Crooked Hillary and myself, should release detailed medical records. I have no problem in doing so! Hillary?
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 28, 2016

The CNN graphic dropped the word “crooked” from the wording, as can be seen in the transcript from the program hosted by Jim Sciutto. The discrepancy was noticed the next day by right wing blogs, including Truthfeed, which called CNN the “Clinton News Network” in its 29 August 2016 post on the topic:
It is not the job of a legitimate news network to remove adjectives to make Hillary more palatable. Of course, CNN is not a real news network, they are far left globalist propaganda news as they have proven once again.
CNN (which actually stands for Cable News Network) updated their story on 29 August 2016 to reflect that Trump had tweeted the phrase “Crooked Hillary” — a phrase he employs almost every time he references his opponent.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
breitbart
CNN
donald trump
+3 more
election 2016
hillary clinton
truthfeed


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:30 August 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

