Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs show 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick shortly after he converted to Islam.					
Shortly after NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick made national headlines in August 2016 by refusing to stand for the playing of the U.S. national anthem, explaining that he would not honor the flag of a country that oppresses black people, several fringe web sites published articles claiming that the actual reason behind his protest was that the San Francisco 49ers QB had recently converted to Islam:
The entire country has been shocked and outraged over San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s refusal to stand for the National Anthem. Kaepernick claimed that he remained seated because of “racism” that causes “oppression” in the United States. But new details about Kaepernick’s personal life may shed some light on this ridiculous new attitude of his.
It turns out that Kaepernick has been dating a Muslim girl, and is apparently converting to Islam for her.
Messages claiming that Kaepernick had converted to Islam were frequently attached to one of two photographs:
Both of the above-displayed images are fake. The image on the right was created by adding Kaepernick’s face over a photograph of Osama bin Laden, while the image on the left was created by adding an Islamic symbol to a photograph of Kaepernick. The original, unaltered images can be seen below:
Dozens of fringe web sites maintained in August 2016 that Kaepernick had converted to Islam, but all of these reports stemmed back to an anonymous tip posted by the sports gossip site Terez Owens in July 2015:
Now we’re hearing he’s transitioning to become a Muslim, according to people close to the player. We received this in our tipbox, Colin’s girlfriend, Hot 97 DJ Nessa, introduced him to the teachings of Islam, and he’s ready to embrace it fully. Our tipster tells us Kaep and Nessa are going to have a traditional Muslim wedding. Colin seems to be all over the place lately.
However, the controversial NFL quarterback has not made any announcements about his alleged conversion, and he did not mention religion while discussing his decision to remain seated during the playing of the national anthem.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
colin kaepernick
islam
kaepernick
+3 more
muslim
national anthem
People


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:29 August 2016
Branch, Eric.   “49ers’ Colin Kaepernick Transcript: ‘I’ll Continue to Sit.’”
    San Francisco Chronicle.   28 August 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

