Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Mylan CEO Heather Bresch as attacked by a bee swarm whilst strolling in a park and no one nearby had an EpiPen on hand to assist her because they're too expensive.					
On 22 August 2016, a satirical web site supposedly run by a very snarky, sunglasses-wearing God reported that Mylan CEO Heather Bresch was stung by a swarm of bees as she walked through a park on her lunch break:
Bresch, who is apparently allergic to bee stings, immediately suffered a severe anaphylactic reaction. However, none of the bystanders had an EpiPen on hand to inject Bresch with relief.
“Didn’t she raise the price to 600 bucks? Nobody got money for that,” said one Robert Selvidge, a bystander on the scene. “She kept pointing at her bag for some reason, who knows why? Was there something in there she needed? Maybe she had an Epipen in there. Whatever. If you ask me she got what she deserves.”
While the article claims Bresch was taken to Mercy Hospital suffering (with great karma) from a severe allergic reaction, the only nearby hospital called Mercy is in Pittsburgh, 30 minutes away from Mylan headquarters in Canonsburg, where Bresch presumably works. A medical emergency would warrant that a patient be taken to a closer facility.
A quick look at other articles published by TheGoodLordAbove.com web site makes it clear it is dedicated to satirical humor. Headlines on the site include “Ryan Lochte Awarded Gold Medal For Being A Douche” and “Pope Vows To Crush Rising Religions Of Star Wars and Pokemon Go.”
Bresch has been the latest focus of anger over the inflated price of life-saving pharmaceuticals, taking the mantle from former Turing CEO Martin Shkreli, who in September 2015 received widespread criticism for purchasing the manufacturing license for the drug Daraprim and dramatically inflating the price.
In August 2016, Mylan came under public scrutiny after raising the price of EpiPens more than 600 percent since acquiring the brand from Merck in 2007. EpiPens deliver an often lifesaving dose of epinephrine to patients suffering anaphylactic shock, a dangerous condition caused by severe allergies that can range from bee stings to various food and environmental sources.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bees
epipen
god
+2 more
Health Care
the good lord above


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:PollyDot, creative commons
Published:26 August 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

