Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Presidential candidate Donald Trump said he'll be "more popular than fried chicken and watermelon" in the black community.					
With less than three months left till the 2016 general election, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump wasn’t polling well among African-American voters in mid-August. A tracking survey showed he had the support of only 8% of blacks, compared to Hillary Clinton’s 87%, so he set about making a pitch for their allegiance.
In an attempt described afterwards as “ham-handed” and “insulting,” Trump reached out to black voters during a speech in Michigan in which he said, “You’re living in poverty. Your schools are no good. You have no jobs. Fifty-eight percent of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose?”
Which wasn’t the most positive, respectful, or even accurate (the actual figures show an unemployment rate among blacks from ages 16 to 24 of 18.7%) of messages, but Trump seemed to feel it was effective. “I think it’s really catching on because I see I’m going up very, very sharply with African-American voters,” he said in a TV interview not long afterwards. 
It’s within that context that an article began making the rounds via social media claiming that Trump made another speech in which he said, “I’ll be more popular than fried chicken and watermelon in the black community”:

Which was even more negative and insulting, given that the watermelon reference in particular hearkens back to very old racist stereotypes meant to belittle and dehumanize African Americans — except that Trump didn’t actually say it. It was a spoof.
The article purporting to quote Trump was published on the satirical web site The Business Standard News. The site’s disclaimer notes that the fake news stories that appear there are “outlandish, but reality is so strange nowadays they could be true.”
We’ll leave the accuracy of the latter for the reader to judge.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
2016 presidential campaign
donald trump
fake news
+1 more
racism


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:26 August 2016
Updated:13 January 2018
Berenson, Tessa.   “Donald Trump: Black Voters Are a ‘Focal Point’ of Campaign.”
    Time.   25 August 2016.
Hartig, Hannah et al .   “Trump Faces Hurdle with Minority Voters as Clinton Maintains Lead, Poll Shows.”
    NBC News.   23 August 2016.
Whiteman, Jamal.   “Trump Says He’ll Be More Popular Than Fried Chicken, Watermelon in the Black Community.”
    The Business Standard News.   25 August 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

