Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Rush Limbaugh accused President Obama and the Democrats of recruiting lesbian farmers to "attack" conservative rural areas of the U.S.							See Example( s )

On 18 August 2016, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and other federal and local agencies hosted an event called The Iowa LGBT Rural Summit, the purpose of which was “to share information relating to policies, programs, and services that exist to protect, promote and strengthen LGBT rural communities.” Among the topics discussed at the Des Moines get-together were rural housing loans, community facility grants, and bullying.
Des Moines’ Drake University participated in the event, summarizing its rationale thus:
Many LGBT people choose to live, work, and raise their families in rural areas. To highlight the unique needs of this community, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has partnered with Drake Law School, One Iowa, the National Center for Lesbian Rights, and True Colors Fund to organize the Iowa LGBT Rural Summit.
The purpose of the event was described in somewhat different terms by conservative commentators, however. Modern Farmer noted the difference in an article published on 24 August:
Various right-wing blogs picked up the event, presumably from a Google Alert for “LGBT,” and promptly spun it into something very strange and surreal. “The all-day summit will teach lesbian and transgender hillbillies how to get subsidies from the government like rural housing loans and ‘community facility grants,’” writes Elizabeth Harrington of the right-wing Washington Free Beacon.
Likewise, radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh spent almost an entire segment of his 17 August program railing against an impending invasion of rural America by lesbian farmers. As you’ll see in this transcribed excerpt, Limbaugh’s thesis was indeed that Democrats are recruiting lesbians to “attack” conservative strongholds:
Have you heard the latest Democrat scam? Have you heard about the agriculture department’s financial grants to lesbian farmers? You think I’m making this up? See, this is how they do it.
… 
Rural America happens to be largely conservative. Rural America is made up of self-reliant, rugged individualist types. They happen to be big believers in the Second Amendment. So here comes the Obama Regime with a bunch of federal money and they’re waving it around, and all you gotta do to get it is be a lesbian and want to be a farmer and they’ll set you up. I’m like you; I never before in my life knew that lesbians wanted to be farmers.
I never knew that lesbians wanted to get behind the horse and the plow and start burrowing. I never knew it. But apparently enough money can make it happen, and the objective here is to attack rural states. They’re already attacking suburbs, and that has been made perfectly clear by what happened in Milwaukee. They’re going after every geographic region that is known to be largely conservative. They never stop, folks. They are constantly on the march.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:24 August 2016
Chait, Jonathan.   “Mass Lesbian Farm Infiltration Is Obama’s Best Scheme Yet.”
    New York Magazine.   23 August 2016.
Nosowitz, Dan.   “Limbaugh Terrified of Lesbian Farmers for Some Reason.”
    Modern Farmer.   24 August 2016.
The Rush Limbaugh Show.   “Latest Lib Assaults: Lesbian Farmers, Transgender Homeless Shelters, American Flags Ripped from Fire Trucks.”
    17 August 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

