Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a real portrait of Donald Trump and his family.							See Example( s )

In August 2016, a purported family portrait of Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump, his wife Melania, and their son Barron surfaced:

While this photograph was circulated with derisive comments about Trump and his family, some were not convinced that the image was real.  However, the portrait is authentic, part of a series (“Melania, Donald, and Barron Trump at Home Shoot”) taken in 2010 by photographer Regine Mahaux for Getty Images. It was accompanied by the following caption:
Donald Trump, Melania Trump and their son Barron Trump pose for a portrait on April 14, 2010 in New York City. Donald Trump is wearing a suit and tie by Brioni, Melania Trump is wearing a dress by Halston, shoes by Manolo Blahnik, makeup by Mykel Renner for Kett Cosmetics and hair by Mordechia for yarokhair.com., Barron Trump is wearing a jacket and pants by Papo d’Anjo, shirt by Leon and shoes by Todds.
Maheaux has been invited into Trump’s home on several occasions to take photographs of him and his family. In March 2016, French Morning published an interview with the photographer in which she shared her views on the Republican Presidential nominee:
Mahaux has since had the opportunity to immortalize the Trumps repeatedly and did a series of family portraits in the beginning of the presidential campaign.
“I like working with the family’s image—it speaks to me, it inspires me. I have a lot of freedom and responsibility. They let me express myself as an artist,” says the photographer. “The Trumps are far from the people I see in the press. They are very hardworking and always take things seriously. I know that the European press is very hard on Donald Trump—I don’t know if it’s the same in the United States. They attack him with a lot of things I just don’t see.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
trump family portrait
trump picture
+1 more
trump portrait


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:23 August 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

