Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A KFC promotion offered Extra Crispy Sunscreen to consumers.					
On 22 August 2016, the international fried chicken restaurant chain KFC issued an interesting (and puzzling announcement — they were offering a chicken-scented sunscreen product to their customers:

Although this announcement appearing on the chain’s official social social media accounts, many consumers had a hard time believing that the sunscreen promotion was on the level
Kevin Hochman, chief marketing officer for KFC U.S., confirmed in a press release that KFC Extra Crispy Sunscreen is a real  product:
“While I’d love to tell you our customers have been asking for this, they haven’t. In fact, I’m pretty confident nobody ever asked for this. It’s just some crazy idea we dreamed up.
[…]
“Our chicken is hand breaded and freshly prepared in our kitchens all day every day, which is why you can smell our Kentucky Fried Chicken outside of our restaurants. Our Extra Crispy Sunscreen is a fun way to leverage that delicious aroma and let our fans live the Extra Crispy lifestyle for themselves.”
Although KFC Extra Crispy Sunscreen is (somewhat) real, you likely won’t be able to get any for yourself — at least not without paying a hefty price. The restaurant chain produced only 3,000 bottles of this chicken-scented sunscreen, all of which were claimed within a few hours of the announcement. 
KFC Extra Crispy Sunscreen provided protection from the sun (it was SPF 30) and smelled like fried chicken. However, according to the labeling it still tasted like sunscreen:
KFC® Extra Crispy™ Sunscreen is an actual product. KFC® Extra Crispy™ Sunscreen is not a food product. NOT a food product. Do not eat this product. Even though this product smells delicious, it is not delicious. The only skin that should be extra crispy this summer is on your fried chicken.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:23 August 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

