Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Donald Trump is billing Michelle Obama for buying yachts, furniture, and other items while she was First Lady.					
On 16 February 2017, the web site FocusNews.info published a story based in part on the myth that First Lady Michelle Obama employed an absurdly extravagant staff. The first paragraph gives a quick indication as to its slant:
Michelle Obama will go down in history as the First Lady who spent more money than any other. In addition to her 214 personal assistants, 32 gardeners, 11 dog walkers and her own mother on the government payroll as a “day care provider,” Moochelle also purchased $11 million worth of new furniture, an airplane, four yachts and two limousines with taxpayer money.
The story goes on to promote the claim that President Donald Trump ordered that Obama be billed for $11 billion, not only for the “new furniture” and other extravagances, but $10 billion for “vacations and the balance in food, clothing, liquor and cigarettes that should have been paid for out of their own pockets.”
Far from having “214 personal assistants,” Obama had a staff of about two dozen people working for her during her tenure as First Lady. The allegation that her mother, Marian Robinson, would receive a $160,000 pension has also been debunked.
Another site, LastLineOfDefense.org, published a similar “report” stating that Trump instead billed Obama’s husband, former President Barack Obama, for a $2.1 billion “vacation scam” that would have paid for his family and staff to indulge in free trips until the year 2036.
Much like LastLineOfDefense.org, FocusNews.info does have a disclaimer regarding its content stating that the site “does not make any warranties about the completeness, reliability and accuracy of this information,” as seen below:

The disclaimer appears as a small pop-up, as well as its own separate section on the website.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
focusnews.info
michelle obama
+2 more
the last line of defense
thelastlineofdefense.org


Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Krista Kennell/Shutterstock
Published:17 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

