Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows a real farm that gets rainbow cheese from rainbow cows.							See Example( s )

On 30 July 2016, a video purportedly showing “rainbow cows” was posted to YouTube, along with the claim that the footage revealed the the true origins of rainbow grilled cheese (a recipe that can be found on sites such as Pinterest):

The video displayed above was viewed more than two million times within two week of its initial posting, and was convincing enough to leave some viewers befuddled. Does rainbow cheese really come from rainbow cows?
The “Man vs. Pin” series typically features videos based on popular Pinterest posts, in which its host, Rob, lampoons some of the do-it-yourself suggestions and recipes that lurk there and tests them to see how viable they actually are.  
The rainbow cows video might be confusing to people who aren’t already familiar with Man vs. Pin, because of its occasionally deadpan presentation.  However, the biggest giveaway (other than the fact that rainbow cows don’t exist) can be found in the video’s description, where the link to visit the Rainbow Creamery web site instead goes to the music video for the Rick Astley song “Never Gonna Give You Up” (a classic Internet troll).
In case you’re curious, recipes for rainbow grilled cheese only require that you add food coloring:
1/3 cup mozzarella, shredded
1/3 cup gruyére, shredded
1/3 cup swiss, shredded
Pink food coloring
Green food coloring
Blue food coloring
Lavender food coloring
4 slices brioche bread
2 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon sprinkles, to garnish
No rainbow cows are needed.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
man vs. pin
pinterest
rainbow cheese
+2 more
rainbow cows
viral videos


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Man vs. Pin/YouTube
Published:19 August 2016
Updated:19 August 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

