Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			An Alabama state senator published an open letter saying that the state of Georgia shouldn't have been allowed to compete in the Olympics.							See Example( s )

On 13 August 2016, the US Daily Mail web site published an article reporting that Alabama senator Fred Q. Calhoun had penned an open letter to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) because he was upset that the state of Georgia, but not other states (such as Alabama), was allowed to compete in the Olympic games:
Friday afternoon, Alabama State Senator Fred Q. Calhoun, (R-Delbert, Ala.) published an open letter to the International Olympic Committee’s President, Thomas Bach, complaining that it was unfair for the committee to allow only one U.S. state to participate as an independent team in this year’s Summer Olympic Games.
“As I was watching last night’s Olympic games with my family, I was stunned to see that Georgia was permitted to participate as an independent entity,” penned the freshman lawmaker.
“Alabama athletes are among the world’s most talented and passionate competitors…  On behalf of the nearly 5 million people who call the Yellow Hammer State home, we request that Alabama be allowed to compete in future Olympic games — just as you’ve permitted the State of Georgia to do,” concluded the state senator.
This story was just a fabrication, however — the country of Georgia’s Olympic team was not confused by any Alabama official with a team from the neighboring American state of the same name.
Although the US Daily Mail does not carry a readily available disclaimer identifying their content as fake news, the web site’s slogan is “news that hasn’t happened yet”:

There are several other ways to tell that this story is bogus. Mainly, there is no Alabama state senator named Fred Q. Calhoun:
Furthermore, the image that accompanied this fake news story (which can be seen at the top of this article) was taken during the 2010 Winter Olympic Games in Canada, not at the 2016 Summer Olympics Games in Rio de Janeiro.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikimedia
Published:15 August 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

