Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			An image shows a magazine DIY tip from the 1950s instructing readers to burn zinc batteries in the fireplace in order to prevent soot formation and produce colorful flames is real.					
An image purportedly showing a 1950s-era DIY magazine tip instructing readers to burn old batteries in their fireplaces to clean chimney soot is frequently circulated along with jokes about how the 1950s were a “simpler time”:
This image is typically shared with humorous comments, and viewed with skepticism about its true vintage, since the advice it provides seems so obviously dangerous. However, this tip really was published in a 1951 issue of Popular Science magazine along with other tips for “Keeping the Home Shipshape”:
While tossing a modern battery into a fire would likely result in an explosion, a rush of toxic fumes, and possible chemical burns, the advice provided by Popular Science back in 1951 was not nearly so dangerous for its time.  As the magazine noted in responding to a reader’s question about burning batteries in fireplaces a decade later, zinc batteries of the early 1950s were typically non-sealed and thus would not build up pressure and explode when exposed to fire:
While we wouldn’t recommend burning any sort of battery, applying the advice mentioned above to a 1950s dry-cell zinc battery would not produce the same explosive results you would encounter if you tossed a modern battery into a fireplace. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
1950s
batteries fireplace
technology
+1 more
zinc battery


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:12 August 2016
Popular Science.   “Tips for a Chimney Sweep.”
    March 1961   (p. 8).
Popular Science.   “Keeping the Home Shipshape.”
    November 1951   (p. 151).
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

