Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Bees are born fully grown.							See Example( s )

Are bees born fully grown? This question has plagued Snapple drinkers since at least 2009, when “real fact” #775 was issued on the drink’s bottle caps:
Renewed buzz about this “fact” was heard in May 2016 when a Snapple aired a television commercial based on this permise:

However, this “fact” about bees being born fully grown is misleading.
A bee goes through complete metamorphosis, transforming from an egg to a larva, to a pupa, and finally to a full-grown adult. This life cycle is not unique to bees: Many insects, including beetles, wasps, ants, butterflies, moths and flies undergo holometabolism, or complete metamorphism.
In May 2015, biologist and photographer Anand Varma captured a time-lapse video showing the first 21 days of a bee’s life:


After the queen bee lays a single egg in a cell of the comb, the worker bees feed the egg for a few days until it hatches into a larva. The larva continues to eat and grow until Day 10. Then, the worker bees cap the cell, and 11 days later an adult honeybee emerges. Varma was captivated by “this crazy transformation, from one nasty-looking grub thing into this crazy-looking insect.”
The phrasing of the Snapple “real fact” and the above-displayed commercial led some viewers to believe that bees give live birth to fully grown adults. But this is not the case: Bees come from eggs and hatch as larvae, and while the majority of a bee’s growth occurs before it emerges from the pupa stage as an adult, that emergence is not commonly known as the “birth” of a bee.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bees
bees born fully grown
Bugs
+2 more
fully grown
snapple


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:11 August 2016
Britton, David.   “Metamorphosis: A Remarkable Change.”
    Australian Museum.   9 July 2009.
Rowell, Melody.   “For a Biologist-Turned-Photographer, a Beehive Becomes a Living Lab.”
    National Geographic.   13 May 2015.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

