Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton cited Robert F. Kennedy's June 1968 assassination as a reason to remain in the presidential race against Barack Obama in 2008.							See Example( s )

Was fully disgusted w/ Clinton's comment in '08 that I interpreted as alluding to RFK's fate & ensuing Dem primary upheaval in '68. (1/3)
On 9 August 2016 GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump was widely criticized for a comment he made about Hillary Clinton that was widely interpreted as an incitement to violence against his presidential rival:

Donald J. Trump appeared to raise the possibility that gun rights supporters could take matters into their own hands if Hillary Clinton is elected president and appoints judges who favor stricter gun control measures.
Repeating his contention that Mrs. Clinton wanted to abolish the right to bear arms, Mr. Trump warned at a rally that it would be “a horrible day” if Mrs. Clinton were elected and got to appoint a tiebreaking Supreme Court justice.
“If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks,” Mr. Trump said, as the crowd began to boo. He quickly added: “Although the Second Amendment people — maybe there is, I don’t know.”
Oblique as it was, Mr. Trump’s remark quickly elicited a wave of condemnation from Democrats, gun control advocates and others, who accused him of suggesting violence against Mrs. Clinton or liberal jurists.

That controversy prompted counter-claims that Hillary Clinton herself had once made similar comments in 2008 by referencing assassinated 1968 presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy in a discussion about her race for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination against Barack Obama. Although many people following the 2016 presidential race didn’t know or recall whether any such thing had occurred, the comment attributed to Clinton remains widely verifiable online in archived 2008 campaign news.
The remark in question was originally made to the editorial board of a newspaper in May 2008 in response to questions about why Clinton remained in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination seemingly past the point of having any real chance of winning it:

Hillary Clinton cited the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy during the 1968 presidential campaign to explain why she was remaining in the race despite long odds.
“We all remember Bobby Kennedy was assassinated in June in California,” Clinton told the editorial board of a South Dakota newspaper. ” I don’t understand it,” Clinton added, alluding to the calls for her to quit.
Clinton made the statement after pointing out that her husband didn’t lock up the nomination until June of 1992, trying to point out that, by past history, it’s not late in the campaign. 
But Barack Obama received Secret Service protection one year ago, the earliest ever in presidential history, after reports of threats.
Obama campaign spokesman Bill Burton said in a statement: “Sen. Clinton’s statement before the Argus Leader editorial board was unfortunate and has no place in this campaign.”


The 2016 resurrection of that remark was often accompanied by suggestions that Clinton had “skated by” with little criticism for her “insensitive” and “heartless” comment, while Donald Trump was widely pilloried for his “ominous” aside. That wasn’t an accurate assessment, however, as the New York Times reported at the time:

The speed at which the remarks were transmitted and reacted to illustrated the new reality candidates are grappling with in this year’s campaign, in which Mr. Obama’s own remarks about “bitter” small-town voters ricocheted around the Internet.
Mrs. Clinton’s remarks were initially reported online by The New York Post, whose reporters were not traveling with the Clinton campaign but were instead watching a live video feed of the meeting  with newspaper editors. Its report quickly jumped to the Drudge Report, then whipped around the Internet and on television, with outraged comments piling up on Web sites.

Also among the critics of Clinton’s comments at the time was angry former MSNBC anchor Keith Olbermann:

Moreover, while Donald Trump has so far offered no apology for his remark, Hillary Clinton promptly did so back in 2008:

Earlier today I was discussing the Democratic primary history and in the course of that discussion mentioned the campaigns that both my husband and Senator Kennedy waged in California in June 1992 and 1968 and I was referencing those to make the point that we have had nomination primary contests that go into June. That’s a historic fact. The Kennedys have been much on my mind the last days because of Senator Kennedy and I regret that if my referencing that moment of trauma for our entire nation, and particularly for the Kennedy family was in any way offensive. I certainly had no intention of that, whatsoever. My view is that we have to look to the past and to our leaders who have inspired us and give us a lot to live up to, and I’m honored to hold Senator Kennedy’s seat in the United States Senate from the state of New York and have the highest regard for the entire Kennedy family.”
The Kennedys have been much on my mind the last days because of Sen. Kennedy and I regret that if my referencing that moment of trauma for our entire nation, and particularly for the Kennedy family, was in any way offensive,” she said.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
assassination
barack obama
donald trump
+4 more
gaffes
hillary clinton
keith olbermann
second amendment


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:10 August 2016
Updated:10 August 2016
Luhby, Tami and Jim Sciutto.   “Secret Service Spoke to Trump Campaign About 2nd Amendment Comment.”
    CNN.   10 August 2016.
Martin, Jonathan.   “Hillary Cites RFK Assassination in Explaining Why She’s Still in Race.”
    Politico.   23 May 2008.
Seelye, Katharine Q.   “Clinton Remark on Kennedy’s Killing Stirs Uproar.”
    The New York Times.   24 May 2008.
Seelye, Katharine Q.   “Clinton Remark on Kennedy’s Killing Stirs Uproar.”
      The New York Times.    24 May 2008.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

