Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Leaked medical records document that Hillary Clinton exhibits signs of dementia and serious illness.							See Example( s )

On 8 August 2016, a new Twitter account titled @HillsMedRecords appeared and published what the user behind the account claimed were leaked medical records attesting to the poor health of Hillary Clinton.
The account was quickly deleted by its owner, but screenshots of the purported records continued circulating on Twitter, allegedly showing documents prepared by Dr. Lisa Bardack on 5 February and 20 March 2014:
 
According to these alleged “medical records,” Hillary Clinton was diagnosed with “early-onset Subcortical Vascular Dementia” in 2013, and subsequent doctor visits suggested the condition was worsening. Additionally, the records noted that Clinton suffered “intensified Complex Partial Seizures” between 2013 and 2014.
One suspect aspect of the “leak” was that Dr. Bardack was widely named in real press reports as having attested to Clinton’s medical fitness to serve as president. On 31 July 2015, TIME mentioned Bardack by name in an article about a letter she had released documenting Clinton’s physical health:
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is in “excellent physical condition,” her doctor said in a letter.
According to Dr. Lisa Bardack, her physician, Clinton, is in good health, currently diagnosed with only hypothyroidism and seasonal pollen allergies. The letter is the first of its kind to be released in the 2016 cycle, and comes as Clinton, 67, has come under scrutiny from some Republicans for her age and questions about her health stemming from a 2012 incident in which she suffered from a blood clot and concussion.
Quite conveniently (and suspiciously), Bardack’s name wasn’t prominent in the news as Clinton’s physician prior to the release of that letter, and just over a week later her name was used to give credibility to “leaked” records (unusually coincidental timing, to say the least):
 
The “leaked” documents seemed rather obvious forgeries, as they didn’t resemble anything like standard medical records, they weren’t printed on any form of letterhead, nor did they include the doctor’s signature (as if whoever crafted then hadn’t actually seen the genuine letter from Dr. Bardack and thus had nothing to imitate). They also exhibited some obvious formatting differences from the official letter issued by Dr. Bardack: In the “leaked” documents Bardack is listed as “Chairman of the Department of Medicine, Mount Kisco Medical Group,” while the letterhead of the verified document references her as “Chair of Internal Medicine[,] Diplomate of the American Board of Internal Medicine.” The “leaked” documents also don’t look like medical records, but rather like a report provided for purposes extrinsic to a standard medical charting (with no indication to whom or for what purpose such a report might have been provided).
We contacted the Mount Kisco Medical Group to ask whether the displayed documents matched internal formatting of medical records or reports but were unable to immediately reach anyone there who could answer that question. In addition to contacting the practice, we also asked doctors to review the “leaked” records to determine whether they contained obvious signs of fabrication visible to physicians (but not necessarily laymen), and they unanimously agreed the documents appear to be forgeries.
Dr, Bardack also released a statement attesting to the falsity of the “leaked” medical records:

As Secretary Clinton’s long time physician, I released a medical statement during the campaign indicating that she is in excellent health. I have recently been made aware of allegedly ‘leaked’ medical documents regarding Secretary Clinton with my name on them. These documents are false, were not written by me and are not based on any medical facts. To reiterate what I said in my previous statement, Secretary Clinton is in excellent health and fit to serve as President of the United States.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
dementia
hillary clinton
lisa bardack
+2 more
politics
seizures


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:10 August 2016
Updated:18 August 2016
Miller, Zeke J.   “Doctor: Hillary Clinton in ‘Excellent’ Physical Condition.”
    TIME.   31 July 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

