Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Marijuana dealers are using the popular game app Pokémon GO to hook children on drugs.							See Example( s )

A meme generated by a satirical Facebook page called “Christians Against Drugs” claims that the popular Pokémon GO augmented reality game app is being used by children to buy “weed needles” from marijuana dealers. The meme reads: 
Since the release of ‘Pokeman GO’ [sic] more than 40 billion children have used the app to ‘catch weedles’, slang for buying weed needles.  Stop dealers selling marijuanas to your children! Ban Pokeman GO now!!
Aside from the fact there are only about 7 billion people living on the planet, marijuana is not injected:  it’s taken orally, sublingually or by way of inhalation. It can also be used topically. The text accompanying the meme makes it clear it’s intended as satire: 
After overhearing my embarrassment of a grandson, Craig, tell his friend he had just “caught a weedle” using the highly dangerous “Pokeman Go” app, I was naturally horrified! After detaining my grandson in my contemplation chamber to undergo 72 hours of self-flagellation and prayer, I decided to find out just how easily children were able to get their hands on drugs using this so-called “game”.
My hands trembling with fear, I “downloaded” the app and my research began. After being bombarded with images of various satanic creatures, occultist symbols and words, I set off in search of the dreaded “weedle”, my crucifix clutched tightly to my chest.
The author of the post concludes by claiming to have performed an “emergency baptism” on a virtual Pokemon creature.
HALLELUJAH ! Christian parents, heed my call ! SAVE your children from injecting Satan’s Spinach ! BAN Pokeman Go in your family NOW !!
The page’s cover photo urges fans to vote for “Donald F. Trump” — the GOP candidate’s middle initial is “J” — in order to “Make America Grape Again”:

The caption on the photograph urges fans to vote for “Donald Tramp:”
Although we live under our sovereign the QUEEN (Agnes) , we at Christians Against Drugs recognise a healthy , Christian leader when we see one . Americans , please Vote for Donald Tramp!
If you need further proof the page is satire, a recently-posted meme features a picture of singer Susan Boyle, along with the words “Swap your bong for a Christian song!”

 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Facebook
Published:10 August 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

