Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Viral image shows a real panda seated next to a human being in the business class section of a jetliner.					
A photo of a giant panda cub serenely chewing on bamboo leaves while riding in the passenger cabin of a commercial airliner has been winging its way around the Internet since 2006. The earliest posting of it we’ve found was on a humor website called Guzer.com, where the original caption read:
I am guessing that this picture is fake but you never know. This may be a trained Panda Bear that is part of some type of act or something. :)
A “press release,” purportedly issued by China Airlines, was posted on the same site two years later:
Ok, clearly we are reaching a nuff/no nuff event horizon here, so it’s time for clear thinking and an explanation. Recognizing the colour scheme as China Airlines Airbus 787, I called their Public Relations department for an explanation. Unsurprisingly this picture is not unknown to them, and the sent me the press release that they had prepared …
China Airlines is a proud corporate sponsor of the panda sanctuary at Cheng Du and was happy to help out recently with the transfer of a young panda cub to a zoo in the United States of America. After extensive consultation with the sanctuary’s veterinary staff it was concluded that the importance of the panda cub precluded it from traveling in the hold of the aircraft, where attending to its needs would be difficult. Thus China Airlines agreed to donate seats in its Business Traveler First cabin for the panda cub named Squee Squee and his carer, Fu Jiang Lang, seen here sitting in the window seat. In the interests of hygiene Squee Squee wore a plastic nappy to take care of panda poop during the flight. We are happy to report that Squee Squee arrived rested and relaxed after his 14-hour flight, and is settling into his new home well. During the flight we can report that he didn’t watch any of the flight movies as we couldn’t find a headset big enough for him. He did order the bamboo from catering menu, with a side of bamboo, and bamboo mousse for dessert.
But as delightful though the story of Squee Squee the panda cub traveling to the U.S. in the business class section of a China Airlines airbus may be, it’s not to be taken seriously.
For one thing, the giant panda is an endangered species, and the whereabouts of the approximately 420 giant pandas in captivity is fairly closely monitored. We’ve found no record of the birth, death, or existence of a panda named Squee Squee in China, the United States, or anywhere else.
For another, even when raised in captivity, giant pandas are wild animals. Some airlines allow service animals and/or pets to ride in the passenger cabin, but a giant panda would not seem to fit in either of those categories.
Moreover, the emergency exit sign near where the panda is sitting appears to be written in Japanese, not Chinese. It’s unlikely that this was a China Airlines airbus.
Lastly, on close examination, the panda in the photo — with its cute little round button nose — does not appear to be real. Actual giant pandas have triangle-shaped noses, as shown here:  

The most likely explanation is that the panda on the plane is a semi-realistic stuffed doll, and that the photo was staged — by whom, we don’t know — as a public relations stunt. The humorous “Squee Squee” story was appended as an afterthought.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
airplane
animals
guzer.com
+2 more
panda
panda diplomacy


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:9 August 2016
Updated:30 July 2017
Kirell, Andrew.  “Pandas on a Plane! Internet Falls for China Airlines Hoax of Bear Riding Business Class.”
   Mediaite.  10 December 2012.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

