Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Viral images show specimens of a plant with flowers in the shape of the female body.							See Example( s )

A recurring motif in South Asian mythology and folk art is known in Sri Lanka as “nari-lata” (or “nari-lata-vela,” and sometimes “ndri-lata”), usually translated as “woman vine.”
One old story about the nari-lata repeated in an 1891 volume of The Theosophist holds that its beauty is such that meditating hermits are unable to hold their concentration in its presence:
The hermits, who live on withered and wind-borne leaves, are tempted by the sight of naari-lata flowers and lose their devotion; hence if any one who lives sumptuously on milk, curdle and other nourishing food says that he has subjugated his senses, it is like saying that Maha Meru is floating on the surface of the ocean.
For all its supposed temptations, traditional folk art depictions of the dreaded (at least by monks) nari-lata tend to be sedate and unprovocative, at least to modern eyes. This photo from a 1906 volume cataloging the antiquities collection of the Colombo Museum of Sri Lanka shows an embroidered betel bag with the nari-lata design:

In 2008, the Internet produced its own full-color, updated version of the nari-lata plant” — now spelled “narilatha,” and also referred to as “nareepol,” “nareephol” or “nariphon” tree — featuring improbably lifelike flowers in the shape of women’s nude bodies dangling from high branches in a region sometimes identified as the Himalayas, sometimes as Thailand:
 
If such a flower or fruit actually exists outside of folklore, it’s unknown to botanists. We haven’t found reference to such a plant in any handbooks or textbooks of botany. That having been said, neither are there obvious signs that the images and video have been tampered with, which leaves only one logical explanation for the existence of the one-of-a-kind photographic “evidence” above: namely, that the “narilatha flowers” shown were carefully constructed physical props designed to fool us, entertain us, or both.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
indian mythology
nareepol tree
narilatha flower
+1 more
Oddities


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:8 August 2016
O’Neill, Kara.  “Mystery Tree That ‘Bears Fruit in the Shape of WOMEN’ Found Growing in Thailand.
   The Mirror.  1 July 2016.
The Theosophist, Vol. 12.
   Madras: The Theosophical Society, 1891.  

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

