Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A 12-year-old Wisconsin girl in died as a result of receiving the Gardasil HPV vaccine.					
On 11 August 2014, the alternative medicine web site Health Impact News posted an inaccurate and poorly documented article entitled “Gardasil Vaccine: One More Girl Dead,” which blamed the death of 12-year-old Meredith Prohaska of Waukesha, Wisconsin — whose mother had found her face-down on the floor and unresponsive six hours after being vaccinated on 30 July 2014 — on the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine Gardasil:
The sudden death of a 12-year-old girl in Waukesha, Wisconsin, just hours after receiving the HPV Gardasil vaccine has shocked the girl’s family, and sent local media out asking questions as to how this could happen. Here is a report from WISN 12 News.
Dr. Geoffrey Swain of the local health department was interviewed to give the standard CDC reply, which is similar to almost every other vaccine, stating that severe reactions like this resulting in death are “very rare,” and about “1 out of a million”.
Assuming that there is some data to back up the claim of only “1 out of a million,” how many doses of the HPV vaccine are administered every year? According to the latest statistics (July 2014) published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services here (page 7), over 9 million per year. So the government admits that at least 9 girls per year are killed by the HPV vaccine. How many parents know this prior to taking a doctor’s advice to administer this vaccine that is supposedly a protection against cervical cancer caused by the human papillomavirus, a sexually transmitted disease?
The article goes on to recite a litany of alleged dangers and problems associated with Gardasil (“There are many more reported side effects than just death…”), without ever addressing the central question in the Prohaska case: Was it the vaccine that actually killed her?
Gardasil is one of the three HPV vaccines licensed for use in the United States and protects against several types of cancer caused by the various strains of human papillomavirus, as well as genital warts. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) currently recommends a routine HPV vaccination consisting of a series of three shots for both boys and girls beginning at age 11 or 12. Based on medical studies and data collected via the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), the CDC and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have determined that HPV vaccines are safe and effective, with only minor side effects in some people. 
Among the data collected between 2006 and 2015 were a reported 117 fatalities among the people who received the approximately 80 million doses of HPV vaccine given out in the U.S. during that time. Each case in which it was confirmed that a fatality had occurred was reviewed by both the CDC and FDA, however, which concluded that in every instance there was “no diagnosis that would suggest that Gardasil caused the death.”
This proved true in the Meredith Prohaska case. In October 2014, the Waukesha County medical examiner announced that an autopsy found no evidence that the vaccination caused or contributed to the girl’s death. The actual cause of death was determined to be diphenhydramine intoxication — diphenhydramine being an antihistamine drug, the main ingredient in over-the-counter medications such as Benadryl. Somehow (the details of the manner of death weren’t made public), the girl had ingested a fatal overdose of the drug.
Although the autopsy results weren’t yet available when Health Impact News claimed Prohaska’s death was caused by the vaccine, neither has that page on the web site been updated to reflect the true cause of death. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:5 August 2016
Updated:12 August 2016
Herzog, Karen.  “Medical Examiner: Girl’s Death Not Caused by HPV Vaccination.”
   Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.  22 October 2014.
Johnson, Mark.  “A Day That Started with a Routine Doctor Visit Ends in Girl’s Death.”
   Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.  7 August 2014.
“Gardasil Vaccine: One More Girl Dead.”
   Health Impact News.  11 August 2014.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

