Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Rolling Stones recorded a jingle for Rice Krispies in 1964.					
The music business, even for the most ardently anti-capitalist bands, is a tension between pure art and the crassest of commercial exploitation.  Often, even groups that don’t get derided for “selling out” will quietly write, perform, and sell the rights to a jingle or three to help buy the groceries or keep the lights on.  (One only needs to think of Jack White’s Coca-Cola commercial, or`90s alterna-darlings Bis doing the theme song for The Powerpuff Girls cartoon to illustrate that point.) It’s something that many bands regard as a necessary evil, and until the advent of the Internet, where nothing truly dies, they could be assured that fans would either never see them to begin with, or just forget about them.
Iron Butterfly even did an extremely surreal commercial for Ban underarm deodorant at one point:
;
The Rolling Stones weren’t above doing commercials, either.  A video that was popularized in August 2016 has actually been lurking in the corners of the web for several years, featuring the band’s unmistakable sound in a 1960s-era commercial for Rice Krispies cereal:
 
We received confirmation from Kellogg’s, Rice Krispies’ parent brand, that the ad is indeed a vintage 1964 commercial and not an elaborate modern-day hoax:
We can confirm that the ad was done by our advertising agency J.W. Thompson for Kellogg’s Great Britain in 1964 and it is titled Juke Box.
In 1964, the Rolling Stones were already big in the United Kingdom but hadn’t yet achieved the enormous popularity in the United States that would come with the release of the single “Satisfaction” the following year. The Rice Krispies jingle (written by early member Brian Jones, who died in 1969) thus didn’t get aired in the U.S. and languished mostly unseen by audiences outside the UK until it was made available online decades later.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
commercialism
rice krispies
rock and roll
+1 more
rolling stones


Fact Checker:
Brooke Binkowski

Published:3 August 2016
Fornatale, Peter.   50 Licks: Myths and Stories from Half a Century of the Rolling Stones.
    New York: Bloomsbury USA, 2013.   ISBN 978-1608199211.
Runtagh, Jordan.  “Shillin’ Out: 15 Huge Musicians We Can’t Believe Sang Commercial Jingles.”
    VH1.   20 March 2014.
LIFE editors.   The Rolling Stones: 50 Years of Rock ‘n’ Roll.
    New York: LIFE, 2012.   ISBN: 978-1603202275.
Unterberger, Richie.   “Brian Jones.”
    AllMusic.com. 
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

