Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows the Clintons posing with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.							See Example( s )

This photograph of the Clinton family posing with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat hit social media in August 2016, where it was circulated with a legend reading “A sweet picture before you go to sleep. For all Jews voting for Hillary.”  It’s unclear whether whoever crafted that legend expected Jewish voters to be outraged by a reminder that the Clintons ever countenanced the controversial former PLO chairman, or expected younger Jewish voters wouldn’t recognize Arafat (who died in 2004) and would just viscerally react to a picture of President Clinton’s wife and daughter smiling and wearing headscarves to cozy up to some Middle Eastern-looking guy.
Yasser Arafat was Chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and President of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), and during his term of office President Bill Clinton was involved in multiple negotiations with Arafat and Israeli leaders to end the decades-long conflict between the two sides. In 1994, Arafat shared a Nobel Peace Prize with Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and foreign minister Shimon Peres “for their efforts to create peace in the Middle East”.
In any case, the occasion for the photograph shown here was a gathering of several world leaders in Morocco for the funeral of King Hassan II, during which meetings centered on pushing forward the Middle East peace process occurred between President Clinton, Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak, and Palestinian president Arafat.  The image presented above is a little misleading, as it has been cropped to imply that the Clintons were posing alone with Arafat, when in fact they were jointly posing with Turkish president Suleyman Demirel:
A file photo dated July 26, 1999 shows Turkey’s ninth president Suleyman Demirel pose next to former US President Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton, and Palestinian President Yasser Arafat in Rabat, where he came to attend the funeral held for Hassan II of Morocco.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bill clinton
chelsea clinton
hillary clinton
+2 more
Photographs
yasser arafat


Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:2 August 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

