Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows an orca leaping several feet out of the water.					
An adult male orca weighs in excess of six tons, making it an impressive sight to see one of those giant creatures soaring a dozen feet or move above the waves. But that’s exactly what photographer Chris Swann captured in July 2013 off the coast of Mexico.
The above-displayed photograph is frequently shared with funny headlines (“Panda Whales are fine leapers” and skeptical comments (“I am no expert but if reddit has taught me anything, this photo is probably photoshopped”) but although it may look unreal to some, it is authentic.
However, there are two small difference between the original image and the more commonly circulated one displayed above. This image has been flipped (making it more difficult to locate the source), and the watermark identifying its source has been removed:
Swan snapped this picture in July 2013, when he witnessed a pod of orcas hunting dolphins. A series of photographs showing the Orca’s leap are available on the Biosphoto web site with the following description:

We never knew where to look because they erupted out of the water in one place, disappeared in a thrashing of foam and reappeared in a totally new location. On one occasion the killer whale burst out of the water directly in front of us, and about six or seven metres ahead. He was about four metres in the air and heading right at us — I thought he was going to land on the boat but it turned mid-air and clattered into the sea beside us.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Biosphoto
Published:29 July 2016
Updated:29 July 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

