Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Disney is replacing the "Tower of Terror" attraction with a "Guardians of the Galaxy" themed ride at their Disney California Adventure Park.							See Example( s )

Screw @Disney for changing tower of terror to guardians of the Galaxy. Trash. Not taking future kids
In April 2016, theme park fans breathed a sigh of relief to learn that Disney’s Tower of Terror attraction, featured at both their U.S. resorts (Disney California Adventure Park and Disney’s Hollywood Studios in Florida) wasn’t being replaced with “Elsa’s Ice Castle,” but the relief was short-lived. In July 2016, the company announced the attraction would be closed at their California park and refitted with a Guardians of the Galaxy theme.
The earlier rumor sparked consternation among Disney fans who have come to love the quirky, Twilight Zone themed ride that features a hair-raising elevator freefall as its climax. However, on 25 July 2016 Los Angeles station KABC confirmed that Tower of Terror‘s days were numbered after all — in Anaheim’s Disney California Adventure Park, at least:
The popular Twilight Zone Tower of Terror attraction at Disney California Adventure Park will be transformed into a “Guardians of the Galaxy” ride, Disney announced at San Diego Comic-Con.
The elevator-drop attraction, based on the 1960s horror television show “The Twilight Zone,” will be closed for good in January [2017].
The new ride, officially named Guardians of the Galaxy-Mission: BREAKOUT!, will debut in summer 2017, Kevin Feige, President of Marvel Studios, said Saturday.
As had occurred with the earlier false rumor, fans expressed dismay at the potential loss of the Tower of Terror:
LEAVE TOWER OF TERROR ALONE pic.twitter.com/5giHyZeOQe
— Jimmy Richardson (@iamjrichardson) July 24, 2016

The news so far pertains only to California’s Disneyland resort and not to Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida, or to any of Disney’s non-U.S. theme parks. Another news outlet reported that the fate of Florida’s version of the attraction remains unclear:
Disney did not mention what would happen to the other Tower of Terror ride at Disney World, but revealed that the California ride’s final “drop day” will be in early January.
Again, vocal fans weighed in, and some didn’t appear too bothered by California’s version being replaced:
THE DISNEY WORLD TOWER OF TERROR IS A GIFT, A BEAUTIFULLY ENGINEERED SWAN  AND THE DCA ONE IS A LAWN FLAMINGO
— PJ: The Reckoning (@PJCalamity) July 25, 2016

Given the focus on Disneyland’s Tower of Terror getting a Guardians of the Galaxy makeover and the absence of information pertaining to Walt Disney World, it seems reasonable to infer the latter is safe, at least for the time being. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
disney parks
disney rumors
disney world
+3 more
disneyland
guardians of the galaxy
tower of terror


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:27 July 2016
Updated:27 July 2016
Rosenbaum, Sophia.   “Major Changes Coming to Disneyland for Marvel Fans.”
    New York Post.   25 July 2016. 
KABC.   “Tower of Terror to Close for ‘Guardians of the Galaxy’ Ride.”
    25 July 2016. 
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

