Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Senator Ted Cruz is scheduled to speak at the 2016 Democratic National Convention.					
On 22 July 2016, The Adobo Chronicle web site published an article reporting that Republican senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who made headlines by refusing to endorse GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump at his party’s national convention, had agreed to speak at the Democratic National Convention:
Sources close to the Democratic National Committee (DNC) have confirmed to The Adobo Chronicles that the chosen theme for this year’s convention is “Vote Your Conscience.”
The theme reinforces the idea that it is “unconscionable” for any American to vote for Donald Trump.
And what better person to expound on this theme than former Republican presidential candidate Senator Ted Cruz.
Cruz emphasized this theme during his speech at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland earlier this week. He has been invited by DNC to speak just before Hillary Clinton delivers her nomination acceptance speech.  He has accepted.
Although this article was nothing more than another clickbait fabrication from a fake news site, it gained some traction because it circulated simultaneously with another (false) rumor holding that Cruz was conspiring with Democrats to take down the Republican presidential nominee.
Further confusing the issue was the Adobo Chronicles‘ new misinformation method of mixing italicized facts with non-italicized, non-factual content. This practice was noted at the bottom of the article, but in a minuscule and nearly unreadable font:
Blowing the above-displayed graphic up to a readable size reveals what the legend actually says:
In addition to the confusing label found at the bottom of articles, the Adobo Chronicle site also carries a disclaimer:
THE ADOBO CHRONICLES  is your source of up-to-date, unbelievable news. Everything you read on this site is based on fact, except for the lies.
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:25 July 2016
Updated:25 July 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

