Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said that Donald Trump 'would destroy much of what is great about America.'					
On 23 June 2016, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s campaign released a list of business leaders who were supporting her candidacy. Among those listed was Netflix CEO Reed Hastings:
Our campaign continues to hear from a wide range of business leaders like these from around the country who believe Hillary Clinton understands the complex world we live in and is proposing serious solutions. We expect to make additional announcements about the broad support for Hillary’s campaign for president as the campaign continues.
“Trump would destroy much of what is great about America.   Hillary Clinton is the strong leader we need, and it’s important that Trump lose by a landslide to reject what he stands for.” – Reed Hastings, CEO and Co-Founder of Netflix
While Hastings’ remark was headline news in June 2016, many readers didn’t encounter it until it was circulated somewhat later via social media, leaving  many skeptical over whether the Netflix CEO had really denounced Donald Trump in those terms:
Although the Clinton campaign’s list of endorsements is the only source for this quote, the Hastings has not disavowed his non-popular comment.
It should also be noted that the endorsement of Clinton was made by Hastings personally and does not represent a Netflix corporate stance, as emphasized by a disclaimer appearing at the bottom of the list:
The individuals listed herein have endorsed in their personal capacity and this does not reflect the endorsement of any organization, corporation or entity to which they are affiliated. Titles and affiliations of each individual are provided for identification purposes only.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
hillary clinton
netflix
+1 more
reed hastings


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:21 July 2016
Updated:21 July 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

