Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump Jr. tweeted that the family's greenskeeper missed his own sister's wedding in order to work for the Trumps.					
Back in June 2012, Donald Trump Jr. tweeted that the family’s greenskeeper, in a display of supreme loyalty to his employers, had missed his own sister’s wedding in order to work for the Trumps:
At dinner w our greenskeeper who missed his sister’s wedding 2 work (luv loyalty 2 us) “No big deal hopefully she’ll have another someday”;)
— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) June 22, 2012

The tweet lay dormant for several years until 19 July 2016, when Trump Jr. spoke in support of his father, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. As the younger Trump received praise and some accusations of plagiarism for his speech, someone found and began circulating the old tweet, which quickly picked up steam on social media.
Whether Trump Jr. was describing an actual event or was attempting to make a joke is not known.  The tweet itself, however, is real.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
2016 presidential campaign
donald trump
donald trump jr.
+1 more
republicans


Fact Checker:
Brooke Binkowski

Featured Image:Twitter
Published:19 July 2016
Updated:19 July 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

