Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump's tweet congratulating his wife Melania on her speech at the Republican Convention was identical to the message Barack Obama sent Michelle in 2012.							See Example( s )

On 19 July 2016, Melania Trump delivered a speech at the Republican Convention that contained a section which was nearly identical to a speech delivered by Michelle Obama at the Democratic Convention in 2008. As accusations of plagiarism started circulating on social media, an image purportedly showing the similarities between congratulatory messages sent by Donald Trump and Barack Obama to their wives after the their respective speeches went viral:

The above-displayed image shows a real tweet from Donald Trump and a fake one from President Obama. 
There are several clues that the Obama tweet is a fabrication. First, the 2012 Democratic Convention was held in September, not July as implied by the faux Obama tweet. Also, a search of President Obama’s tweets for 19 July 2012 does not produce the above-displayed message. Finally, unlike the real Trump tweet, Obama’s message is not accompanied by Twitter’s blue verified symbol.
While Melania Trump may have cribbed a section of her speech from Michelle Obama, Donald Trump did not copy his congratulatory tweet from Barack Obama. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
barack obama
donald trump
melania trump
+3 more
michelle obama
plagiarism
politics


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:19 July 2016
Updated:19 July 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

