Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Trump announced intent to ban "full face" veils in public places, an act presumably targeting Muslim women.							See Example( s )

BREAKING NEWS:Trump Just Declared To Ban Full-Face Veils In Public Places. Do You Support This ? https://t.co/TajLeL4tA4 pic.twitter.com/ygE8EOb300
BREAKING: Trump Just Declare To Ban Full-Face Veils In Public Places. Do You Support This ? https://t.co/D4QhX3ApLY pic.twitter.com/9pmmMoYeva
One common technique employed by clickbait web sites is to social post content that consists of nothing other than a solicitation to readers to indicate whether they “support” a particular controversial political issue or decision.  And as often as not, the political subjects addressed in such posts are non-existent ones fabricated for the purpose of driving click-throughs.
Sites such as USA Daily Info have employed this technique in February 2017 by falsely suggesting that President Trump had “just declare to ban [‘full face’] veils in public places, posting links to a page that consisting of nothing but an image of a veiled woman and a poll posing the Yes/No question “Trump Agrees To Ban Full-Face Veils In Public Places. Do You Support This?”  Beneath that content was a comment section in which readers expressed support for the non-existent ban.
No legitimate news outlet reported that President Trump had announced, or even opined about, an outright ban on veils.  And any contemplation of such a ban would have raised a host of constitutional issues that would have been widely debated in the public sphere and the news media.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
fake news
hijab
+2 more
niqab
usa daily info


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:bodom / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:14 February 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

