Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Sharonda Banks, 28, of Newark, New Jersey died after a maggot-infested weave was sewn into her scalp.					
In July 2016, the News10Live.com web site published an article reporting that a woman had died after getting a weave at a hair braiding salon in New Jersey:
A Newark woman died from getting a maggot infested weave sewn into her hair. According to authorities, Banks’ died from an infestation of maggots in her head.
Sharonda Banks, 28, of Newark was found dead in her apartment on the 200 block of S. 17th Street. According to reports, Banks had visited Princess Fatima African Hair Braiding salon on Springfield Avenue three days prior to get her hair done. Banks frequently used the hair salon for years without any prior incidents.
The story was completely fabricated. News 10 Live is one of a growing number of fake news web sites that publish “clickbait” fake news articles to generate ad revenue via the Internet. A note on the site’s disclaimer page states (however ungrammatically):
News10Live is a news platform covering major current events. Most of these events are truthful in nature while some may content [sic] satire.
The article text was copied almost word-for-word from another fake news site, EmpireHerald.com, where it had been posted approximately five months earlier.
The maggot-infested weave tale is essentially a rehash of an urban legend that has circulated online and off for decades. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Emery

Published:12 July 2016
Updated:18 July 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

