Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Ruth Bader Ginsburg threatened to leave the Supreme Court if Donald Trump gets elected president.							See Example( s )

On 8 July 2016, entertainment web site TheRightists.com published a fake news article claiming that Ruth Bader Ginsburg promised to resign from the Supreme Court if Donald Trump was elected President of the United States:
After opening fire at the presumptive Republican presidential candidate, Ginsberg turned to her own plans should Donald Trump actually become the new President of the United States. “There’s no need to beat around the bush, so I’m just going to go ahead and say it – I will resign my position as a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States if that happens. I cannot imagine performing my duties under the constant pressure of waking up in the morning and having to go to work knowing that every ruling we as an institution make will be viewed through the prism of a Trump presidency. I can tolerate this charade of a presidential campaign, but I could not live with him as president,” she said.
The quote displayed above is fictional. TheRightists.com bills itself as a “hybrid” site that is both news and satire:
This is HYBRID site of news and satire. part of our stories already happens, part, not yet. NOT all of our stories are true!
In this case, the web site published a real quote from Ruth Bader Ginsburg in which she commented on the possibility of a Trump presidency, followed by a fake quote in which she purportedly said that she would resign from the Supreme Court if Trump was elected.  On 8 July 2016, Ginsburg told the Associated Press in a wide-ranging interview that she didn’t want to think about the possibility of a Trump presidency:
“I don’t want to think about that possibility, but if it should be, then everything is up for grabs,” Ginsburg told The Associated Press in an interview published Friday.
But the leader of the court’s liberal wing didn’t sound too concerned about the possibility — referring to the next president with the pronoun “she.”
“It’s likely that the next president, whoever she will be, will have a few appointments to make,” Ginsburg, told the AP, a thinly veiled reference to presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:9 July 2016
Updated:9 July 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

