Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Police officer Nakia Jones was fired after expressing her thoughts about police brutality in a viral Facebook live video.							See Example( s )

Sadd. But this is a freedom of speEch country? Yah okay RT @HOT97: Did Officer Nakia Jones Get Fired ... https://t.co/ZZYpCGIpOi
On 6 July 2016, police officer Nakia Jones published a candid video via Facebook Live, during which she discussed the Alton Sterling shooting controversy:

Jones’ video was viewed more than six million times in just two days, rapidly introducing her to a massive social media audience.
Not long after the video was shared widely, the web site Ask Kissy published a post that claimed Jones had been disciplined (or possibly fired) for airing her views on the social network. The site appeared to conclude from statements made by Jones at a press conference that she had been suspended or terminated from her position:

New York-area radio station WQHT further stirred the pot in a blog post suggestively titled “Did Officer Nakia Jones Get Fired For Speaking Against Police?! [PHOTO].” However, the tail end of that post said:
The mayor of Warrensville, Ohio, Brad Sellers shot down the rumors during a recent press conference.
Cleveland affiliate WOIO previously reported that Jones was neither fired nor suspended for her viral video, making their headline misleading:
Mayor Brad Sellers said Jones did not violate the social media policy that is currently in place. She is currently on full duty at the police department and there was not violations of any policies with the City of Warrensville Heights.
The city said it’s received threats to city hall by the KKK.
Media personality Roland Martin attempted to halt the spread of the rumor:

Despite rumors and concern, officer Nakia Jones remained on full duty and was not considered in violation of any policy.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:8 July 2016
Updated:8 July 2016
Ask Kissy.   “It’s No Surprise That Police Officer Nakia Jones Got Suspended For Speaking The Truth [VIDEO].”
    8 July 2016.
Hot 97.   “Did Officer Nakia Jones Get Fired For Speaking Against Police?! [PHOTO].”
    8 July 2016.
WOIO.   “Mayor: Warrensville Officer Did Not Violate Social Media Policy.”
    8 July 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

