Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a man posing with a horse he killed in Australia with a bow and arrow.					
In June 2016, a photograph purportedly showing a man posing with a horse he killed with a bow and arrow in Australia began circulating via social media:
Although the photograph is frequently shared along with disparaging remarks about the hunter criticizing him for killing a wild horse, hunting brumbies (i.e., feral horses) is legal in Australia. In fact, the New South Wales government announced a plan in April 2016 to reduce the number of wild horses in Kosciusko National Park from 6,000 to 3,000 in the next five to ten years using a variety of “humane control methods,” including ground shooting:

A plan to almost wipe out the Snowy Mountains brumby population over the next two decades has been released by the New South Wales Government today.
The draft Wild Horse Management plan for Kosciusko National Park aims to reduce the current number of wild horses in the national park area from 6,000 to approximately 3,000 in the next five to 10 years.
It then proposes to cut that figure to only 600 over the next 20 years.
NSW Environment Minister Mark Speakman said the horses were damaging the park’s fragile alpine and sub-alpine environment.
Scientists have long campaigned for the removal of all brumbies from Australia’s alpine areas, arguing they damage sensitive waterways and endanger native species.
Mr Speakman said a range of humane control methods including trapping, mustering, fertility control and ground shooting would be used to carry out the cull.
It’s unclear whether the horse pictured above was killed in the Kosciusko National Park, as the image was shared to Photobucket with a caption that did not include mention of a specific location:
Big John with wild Brumby stallion 1 shot at 41 meters with Martin Cougar III using using Easton Evolution 340 arrows with NAP THunderhead broadheads
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Animal Welfare
brumby
horse hunting
+1 more
hunting


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:1 July 2016
Updated:1 July 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

