Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The US government cancelled all 4th of July fireworks due to terror fears.					
On 23 June 2016, the Christian Times Newspaper web site published an article reporting that the U.S. government had canceled all upcoming 4th of July fireworks shows due to terror fears:
In a stunning development in America’s War on Terror, federal authorities announced on Thursday that Fourth of July fireworks shows across the U.S. will be canceled for safety and security reasons.
Representatives from the FBI, DOD, and Department of Homeland Security held a joint press conference in Washington to announce the unprecedented policy move.
“Ongoing threats to American national security from ISIS, domestic terrorists, and foreign terrorist organizations led federal authorities to determine that a cancellation of July 4th fireworks is necessary to reduce potential attack scenarios,” said Terrance Lively, a counter-terrorism expert with the DHS.
This report was nothing more than another piece of fabricated clickbait. The  Christian Times Newspaper (not to be confused with the legitimate  Christian Times) makes conflicting claims about the nature of the site’s content: the disclaimer holds that they do their “best to provide accurate, updated news and information” while also stating that “not all stories are necessarily grounded in fact.” We’ve  found that the most of the site’s content is either based on unfounded conspiracy theories or made out of whole cloth.
The report about 4th of July fireworks being cancelled, for instance, is simply fiction. No credible news publication has reported news of this purported policy change, and a quick search for firework celebrations on the 4th of July reveals that cities across the country are still hosting such events for the holiday.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:26 June 2016
Updated:26 June 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

