Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The United States is deporting military veterans.					
Immigration is a sensitive and touchy issue, and never more so than in the United States during an election year.  Thus, when stories started to emerge in 2016 about a group of veterans of the U.S. military living in Mexico after they had been deported from the United States (a story we previously reported on) it seemed natural to question what looked like nothing more than a chunk of political kryptonite.
However, deported veterans exist, although no one — not even the Department of Homeland Security — knows how many.  Their issue has been slowly brought into mainstream American consciousness largely by the efforts of committed activists in Tijuana.
“The Bunker,” also known as the Deported Veterans Support House, is in a small cinderbrick building tucked away on a side street in Mexico’s border town of Tijuana, and is frequented by veterans of every branch of the United States military, who fought everywhere from Vietnam to Afghanistan. Former Army paratrooper Hector Barajas, 39, opened it to be a gathering place and a refuge for veterans who, like him, had been deported:
“I started The Bunker because there was a need,” Barajas told us.
He said since his deportation, he had been meeting others like him living in Tijuana, and discovered that they lived throughout Mexico — but not just Mexico.  There are hundreds of deported military vets living in at least twenty countries, he said. Since then, The Bunker has since become less a refuge and more a cause:
Our vision is to end the deportations of Deported Veterans, repatriate the ones who have already been deported, and offer support until they all go home.
We shouldn’t honor our Deported Veterans by allowing them to return upon death. Honor them by allowing them to return home to their families and give them any benefits that they are eligible for.
It may come as a surprise to learn that serving in the United States military does not automatically confer citizenship, but it doesn’t.  It can smooth the way, provided the aspiring citizen is aware of what they need to do in order to apply for citizenship and gets it done within a certain timeframe. However, it’s not uncommon for enlistees to wrongly assume (having never been told otherwise) they have done all they need to do in order to be awarded citizenship, and thus all they have to do after their honorable discharge is wait.

Sometimes, too, there are bureaucratic foulups. One man was deported after he was unable to attend a hearing, despite his reason: he was in the hospital receiving surgery at the time.  Others do everything the way they’re supposed to, filing their paperwork and appearing at their meetings, but still get deported, and no one seems to know exactly why.  Once they are outside the U.S., they maintain a legal right to VA benefits such as healthcare, and to whatever funds they might be entitled, but they have no way of getting back into the United States to obtain that assistance, and there are no satellite offices outside the country to help them.
Because these particular veterans are either in the United States on green cards or without documentation after their discharges, they can be deported with cause, or for no reason at all.  Past and present members of the armed forces are supposed to receive special consideration during deportation hearings, but the guidelines are inconsistently applied.
However, some of these veterans have spent time in prison for assault or drug offenses, which makes their situation more difficult to parse, at least politically.  Elected officials (and candidates) who might ordinarily be in full-throated cry about the importance of military rights tend to go oddly silent when confronted with the spectres of undocumented soldiers.  Sympathy for those wounded on the battlefield under the American flag suddenly falters when it turns out they had entered the country without documentation years before.
Unless something changes for them, the only way most of the deported veterans will be able to return to the United States is by dying.  By law, all military veterans (except those who have been dishonorably discharged) are entitled to burial in a national cemetery, and immigration laws don’t apply to corpses.
On 20 April 2016, lawmakers introduced a bill to readmit military veterans who were deported and who were not previously convicted of serious crimes. It would also prevent the removal of military veterans from the U.S. in the future.
As of February 2017, Hector Barajas has still not been allowed back in the United States.  His fate remains undecided.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
deported veteran
immigration
mexico
+1 more
us military


Fact Checker:
Brooke Binkowski

Published:8 February 2016
Updated:13 February 2017
Kao, Joanna and Vo, Lam Thuy.  “Deported Vets: Life in the Bunker.”
Al Jazeera.   26 September 2014.
Siegal, Erin.  “U.S. Veterans ‘Banished’ to Mexico.”
KPBS.org.  12 November 2012.
Tobia, P.J.  “They Served Their Country. Now They Can’t Live In It.”
PBS.org.    10 September 2015.
“Naturalization Through Military Service: Fact Sheet.”
USCIS.gov.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

