Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Musician Hank Williams Jr. has endorsed Hillary Clinton for president.					
On 15 June 2016, the Nevada County Scooper published an article reporting that musician Hank Williams Jr. had endorsed Hillary Clinton for President of the United States — an act that would have been quite surprising, given that Williams has long been politically involved with the Republican Party:
Country music artist Hank Williams Jr., son of legend Hank Williams, has made a startling announcement. Williams has withdrawn his support for Republican candidate Donald Trump, and endorsed Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton. The move shocks Williams fans all over the nation.
The article was just piece of fabricated clickbait, though. The Nevada County Scooper is a fake news web site, as its disclaimer notes:
The Scooper is a satirical website is in scope and intent. Sometimes it’s funny; often it is not. We provide fake news and social criticism in a satirical setting. Our intention is not to fool or trick anyone, but obviously it happens. We firmly believe that you can soften a person’s willingness to listen by injecting irony, and yes sometimes humor, into the conversation.
Although Hank Williams Jr. has not endorsed Hillary Clinton for president, as of this writing the country music star has not pledged his support for GOP candidate Donald Trump either, telling Rolling Stone in February 2016:
“‘What about the election?’ they say. I say, ‘I don’t give a shit about the election, I’ve got a smash CD coming out!'” Williams tells Rolling Stone Country.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:23 June 2016
Updated:23 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

