Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Yellowstone was evacuated in June 2016 after experts warned of an imminent volcanic eruption.					
In June 2016, the web site Global Network published an article reporting that Yellowstone National Park had been evacuated due to fears of an imminent volcanic eruption:
Yellowstone National Park has been hastily evacuated as fear of the Yellowstone Caldera’s eruption is deemed to be approaching sooner than previously expected. Researchers on-site claim that the 640,000 year-old super volcano has exhibited a sudden spike of activity which indicates that it could erupt in as little as two weeks.
The Global Network cited the web site Trending News Guide as their source of the information, which in turn cited Liberty First News, which had cited a (now-deleted) 2014 report published by the Civic Tribune — a web site that allows users to “submit (their) own news.”
Back in 2014, a Yellowstone official debunked the Civic Tribune‘s report as completely false:
Yellowstone is not being evacuated and no, the supervolcano is not erupting. That is the message from park officials about a rumor prompting calls from people and media all over the country.
Yellowstone Park Spokesman Al Nash says the rumor came from a website called Civic Tribune. He says no one has heard of the one-page website until now.
Nash says the web page looks professional, but you can’t find out who the source is.  He says the park and surrounding businesses are getting many calls and emails. 
According to Nash, “What they said on their website, that was also a Facebook post, was that Yellowstone was evacuating because an eruption of the supervolcano was imminent. And they used a photograph of a volcanic eruption from the Phillipines in 1984 to illustrate their story.”

The Civic Tribune‘s report was untrue in 2014 and remains so now. The Yellowstone National Park web site makes no mention of any recent  evacuation, and the National Park Service‘s web site includes no alerts about an imminent volcanic eruption. Additionally, the United States Geological Survey’s Yellowstone Volcano Observatory, which monitors “volcanic, hydrothermal, and earthquake activity in the Yellowstone Plateau region,” reports that activity in the area is at normal levels.
The Yellowstone National Park Facebook page also addressed the rumor on 18 June 2016 via Facebook:
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:23 June 2016
Updated:23 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

