Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The movie "Finding Dory" features a transgender stingray named StingRhonda.							See Example( s )

On 10 June 2016, comedian Ellen DeGeneres sat down with reporters to discuss about her new movie, “Finding Dory.” During the interview, DeGeneres addressed a rumor about the movie featuring a lesbian couple, saying that she didn’t know if the characters were gay. She then made a joke about a transgender stingray:
 
I don’t mind the question and I don’t know if it’s true or not or if she just has a bad short haircut. Who knows if she’s a lesbian. Actually, here’s a little secret that I’ll tell you, there’s a stingray that’s becoming StingRhonda. So there’s a trans-sting in the movie.
While DeGeneres’ comment was made in jest (laughter from the interviewer is audible in the clip), several people missed the joke and claimed that Pixar’s sequel to the 2003 movie “Finding Nemo” featured a transgender stingray:
THE ‘GAYING’ OF AMERICA.
‘FINDING DORY’ HAS TRANSGENDER STINGRAY
Ellen DeGenderes says creature is ‘becoming sting-Rhonda’
Disney/Pixar’s upcoming film Finding Dory features a transgender stingray who transitions to become “Sting-Rhonda,” the film’s star Ellen DeGeneres revealed in an interview.
Rumors about the transgender stingray started circulating well before the movie was released, but no transgender characters actually showed up in the movie.  Reviewers criticized DeGeneres for joking about transgender people:
As well as ignoring the Finding Dory trailers, you also have to ignore Ellen DeGeneres, who continues to be a jerk to transgender people. Before the movie’s release she was joking around about a transgender stingray–“We have a stingray that become a sting-Rhonda”–and people started wondering if Finding Dory could be considered a film with trans representation. All trans people started panicking about cis-written trans representation and hoping that it wasn’t a mess. It turns out that this was another of Ellen’s jokes made in poor taste at the trans community’s expense–her third in recent years.
The StingRhonda character also doesn’t appear on the movie’s IMDB page, lending further weight that the character was nothing more than a joke from Degeneres.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
disney
finding dory
Movies
+2 more
pixar
transgender


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:21 June 2016
Updated:21 June 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

