Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Democratic presidential candidates have only won the White House in years that an Eastern Conference team has also won the NBA Championship.							See Example( s )

On 19 June 2016, the Cleveland Cavaliers won their first-ever NBA championship by defeating the Golden State Warriors in the thrilling seven-game series. While this certainly came as good news to Lebron James, Kyrie Irving, and the people of Ohio, it may have also provided a boost of confidence to Hillary Clinton for an unlikely reason: Democratic candidates have only won the presidency in years that Eastern Conference teams have also won NBA Championships.
President Obama secured his first term in office in 2008, the same year that the Eastern conference Boston Celtics won the NBA Championship, and his second term in 2012, when the Miami Heat did the same. Bill Clinton’s victories in 1992 and 1996 were also accompanied by Eastern Conference victories, provided in both years by the Chicago Bulls. In 1976, Jimmy Carter won the White House and the Boston Celtics won the NBA Championship. A Celtics victory also preceded the elections of Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 and the election of John F. Kennedy in 1960:
The one possible asterisk here stems from 1948, when President Harry S. Truman was re-elected in the same year that a Western Conference team, the Baltimore Bullets, took the Basketball Association of America (BAA) championship. However, that exception is explained away by noting that the BAA didn’t officially merge with the rival National Basketball League (NBL) and become the NBA until the following year. The claim that a Democratic candidate has only won the White House in the same year that an Eastern Conference team has won the NBA Championship therefore still stands, at least for as long as there has been an entity known as the National Basketball Association (i.e., since 1949).
We note that while Democratic candidates have only captured the White House in years when Eastern Conference teams won NBA championships, an Eastern Conference team’s winning basketball’s biggest prize doesn’t guarantee a  Democratic presidential victory. For instance, both Republican George W. Bush and the Detroit Pistons both shared victories in 2004.
We also note that since the U.S. works under a (primarily) two-party system, and the NBA has but two conferences, it requires no great stretch of odds to attribute this all to mere coincidence.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:20 June 2016
Updated:20 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

