Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Jimmy Carter said that the novelty of electing a woman president should not outweigh the duty of electing an honest president.							See Example( s )

In June 2016, a purported quote from former president Jimmy Carter concerning the possible election of the United States’ first woman president began circulating online:
We’ve found no documentation showing that the former president said this, however, and no record of this statement (attached to Jimmy Carter’s name or otherwise) showing up prior to June 2016, when it was posted on an internet forum regarding Hillary Clinton and election fraud.
Although the post included links to dozens of sources in an attempt to prove that Clinton had committed election fraud, it provided no citation for the quote attributed to Carter. Given that this “quote” originated on a thread dedicated to showing why Hillary Clinton should not be elected president of the United States, and that no reputable publication had ever linked Carter to this phrase prior to its publication on this forum, it’s probable Jimmy Carter never said it.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:White House Flickr
Published:17 June 2016
Updated:17 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

