Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows Kevin Hart after he was mugged at a Miami nightclub.							See Example( s )

A photograph purportedly showing Kevin Hart with a black eye and a fat lip has been circulating online since at least 2013, with a variety of backstories attached to it. In May 2016, for example, the web site That Viral Feed used the image as the focus of an article reporting that the actor had been mugged outside of a Miami nightclub:
Well Known comedian Kevin Hart Robbed Outside Miami Night Club Tuesday Night.
Witness told police that Kevin was drunk and cracking jokes and ended up getting into a altercation with a group of guys at the night club he attended.
After they beat him they took his jordans and his wallet also a $5,000 Rolex. The police are still looking for the suspects.
The image has also been tied to fictitious mugging incidents in Durban and Capeton, while other versions of rumors attached to it claimed that the comedian was beaten by a group of women after he insulted them.
In fact, Hart posted this photograph to his Facebook account on 7 November 2013, showing that his “injuries” were nothing more than a makeup job applied to him for a fight scene he was filming:
I got my ass whooped in this scene today!!!! I keep the funny coming people….I got some hilarious shit coming out!!! Stay tuned…..
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:13 June 2016
Updated:13 June 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

