Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			JetBlue is offering free flights to Orlando for family members and partners of the victims of the Pulse Nightclub shooting.							See Example( s )

In the wake of the mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in June 2016, rumors circulated that the airline JetBlue was offering free air travel to the families of the victims. That claim appeared on Facebook and Twitter, where users both lauded the airline and encouraged viewers to share the information.
We contacted JetBlue to inquire whether there was any truth to the rumor, and a representative for the airline told us:
JetBlue is providing free seats on its available flights to/from Orlando for immediate family and domestic partners of victims who were killed or injured. Those family members and domestic partners requiring travel assistance can contact 1-800-JETBLUE for details.
We were unable to find any mention of JetBlue’s initiative on the company’s Facebook, Twitter, or other social media platforms, but the company did directly provide the statement reproduced above to us indicating that some family members and domestic partners of the victims were eligible for travel assistance to and from Orlando following the Pulse nightclub tragedy. Moreover, the company forwarded us a link to a blog post that provided details about the assistance the airline was offering to loved ones and domestic partners:
Like many of you, we continue to watch reports of the Orlando nightclub shooting with great sadness. Our thoughts are with the victims and their loved ones.
This weekend’s events are felt by all of our 19,000 crewmembers, many of whom live in, work from and travel through Orlando — one of our focus cities — at Orlando International Airport, our Orlando Support Center and JetBlue University.
We want to do our part to help the victims of this tragedy, as well as support the Orlando community through this difficult time.
o JetBlue is providing free seats on its available flights to/from Orlando for immediate family and domestic partners of victims who were killed or injured. Those family members and domestic partners requiring travel assistance can contact 1-800-JETBLUE for details.
o A fee waiver is in place for customers traveling to/from Orlando who need to make last-minute changes to their travel plans.
o For JetBlue crewmembers impacted by this event, we have activated resources to assist and are offering a donation program. Crewmembers can visit our internal website, hellojetblue, or talk to their crewleader for more details.
o JetBlue will make a charitable contribution to support the victims and their families.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:13 June 2016
Updated:13 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

