Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump retweeted a purported photograph of black supporters of his campaign, even though the depicted people aren't Trump fans.					
On 4 June 2016, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump retweeted a tweet that included a photograph purportedly showing some black supporters of his campaign:
“@Don_Vito_08: Thank You Mr. Trump for Standing up for Our Country! #VoteTrump2016 JOIN ME ON THE #TrumpTrainhttps://t.co/zgopGvSEen“
  — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 4, 2016
 
One day earlier, Trump had been mocked in the media for referring to a lone black political rally attendee as “my African-American over here.” Trump didn’t directly state that the retweet was made in response to the controversy over his rally comment, but many social media users inferred that it was.
The original tweet that Trump retweeted was subsequently deleted, but Trump’s tweet remained undeleted in his Twitter timeline as of 6 June 2016. Screen captures of the original retweet depicted a photograph that suggested the individuals pictured therein were Trump supporters:
Not long after Trump’s retweet appeared online, other users questioned the assertion that the black people in the photograph were indeed supporters of his campaign. In under half an hour, fellow Twitterers pointed out that the image in the retweet had originated with a news article unrelated to Trump or the presidential election:
Seriously shameful: Trump’s retweeted photo of “supporters” was lifted from @WCPO https://t.co/xXH8RZS8WT https://t.co/Vun9QDp9NZ — Mark Czerniec (@MarkCzerniec) June 4, 2016

BuzzFeed reported that the image was among the first results returned in a Google search for “black family,” and that the photograph was captured at the Midwest Black Family Reunion of August 2015. They identified the people pictured in the photograph as the Perry family (and friends), and quoted Eddie Perry’s comments on the Trump controversy:
[A] friend texted [Eddie] a screenshot of Trump’s tweet. “When I saw it, I immediately knew it was political propaganda,” he said.
“Why use it without asking for someone’s permission?” he asked. “Why use our image without asking?”
The other people in the picture are friends of the family, Perry said … Eddie Perry said the picture of his family that Trump shared was “misleading” and “taken out of context.”
“I’m not saying there aren’t black families who endorse Trump,” he said, “however, this black family didn’t endorse anyone.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:6 June 2016
Updated:6 June 2016
Mack, David.   “We Spoke to the Family in This Trump Tweet and They’re Not Happy.”
    BuzzFeed.   4 June 2016.
Smith, Candace.   “Donald Trump Calls Out to ‘My African-American’ During Rally.”
    ABCNews.com.   3 June 2016.
WCPO-TV [Cincinnati].   “Midwest Black Family Reunion at Sawyer Point.”
    16 August 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

