Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Fox News contributor Michelle Fields said that "we shouldn't just give money to people simply because they are old."							See Example( s )

In August 2015 the above-reproduced image was shared to the Facebook page “International Community,” featuring a screenshot of Fox News pundit Michelle Fields with the following text:
Fox News ‘Expert on Social Security Michelle Fields: “We shouldn’t simply give social security to people because they are old.”
Fox News — FIRE MICHELLE FIELDS
We paid for Social Security, it is our property. Want to see 50 million real pissed off old people, with guns and no reason to live, try to steal what we have paid for.
The remark was one Fields made during a panel discussion on Social Security, only the second half of which was reproduced in the image.  Fields wasn’t suggesting Social Security be abolished entirely; she was positing that Social Security funds be attached to some form of means test so that recipients with greater financial need would have priority:
“We should give money to people who need it, who are in need … we shouldn’t just give money to people simply because they are old.”


Michelle Fields was a regular panelist on the Fox News weekend program Cashin’ In, but she was dropped from the show in March 2016 after filing a police report against Donald Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, for assaulting her.
The battery charge against Lewandowski was dropped, and in May 2016 Fields was hired by the Huffington Post to cover Trump’s campaign. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
corey lewandowski
fox news
michelle fields
+2 more
political memes
social security


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:1 June 2016
Updated:1 June 2016
Eder, Steve.   “Battery Charge Against Corey Lewandowski, Trump Campaign Manager, Is Dropped.”
    The New York Times.   14 April 2016.
Feldman, Josh.   “Fox News Reacts to Report About Michelle Fields Being Dropped from Bolling Show.”
    Mediaite.   17 March 2016.
Gold, Hadas.   “Michelle Fields Joins The Huffington Post, Will Cover Trump.”
    Politico.   22 May 2016.
The Ring of Fire Network.   “Fox: Let’s Stop Giving Old People Money Just Because They Are Old: Why Social Security?”
    12 August 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

