Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Sarah Palin said that America was not to blame for slavery, and that "the negroes" liked it.							See Example( s )

On 28 May 2016, the web site Corrupted Potato published an article reporting that former Alaska governor Sarah Palin said that the United States’ was not responsible for slavery, and that she claimed “the negroes” liked it:
“I’m telling you, I’ve been saying it for years, but nobody’s listening – slavery wasn’t forced onto African-Americans, they accepted it willingly,” she said. “But, all of a sudden, they realized that it represented a very powerful bargaining chip that could help them milk more money out of the national budget. And now they’re even complaining white people are racist. That is just horrendous.
“I’m going to say it once again loudly and clearly: Negroes loved being slaves and they were doing just fine under our rules. So, you see, you can’t really blame us for any of it, not legitimately … If they liked it and enjoyed it, how can you pin that on white people?” Palin asked. “Are the Chinese blaming their leaders for being communist? No, of course not – they’re working their butts off and are prospering because they’re keeping it real. That’s what we need to start doing, because we’re not at fault for slavery. Negroes loved being slaves because of the simple fact that they can’t tackle the world around them on their own. They need someone to govern them, to show them how to organize, how to live as a community, in a civilized manner. They pretty much need us more than we need them.”
That article cited a 31 March 2016 article on the primarily-satirical web site Newslo as a source, but the rehashed claim wasn’t an instance of a blog being taken in unwittingly by a fake news story. Corrupted Potato clearly stated on its own disclaimer page that it deliberately publishes fake news:
Corrupted Potato is a News Satire platform on the web. Readers come to us for a unique brand of entertainment and information that is enhanced by features like our fact-button, which allows readers to find what is fact and what is satire.
Corrupted Potato brings you completely factual stories that are so ridiculous, they don’t need our trademark touch.
Much like Newslo, Religionlo, and Politicalo (a trio of related fake news sites), Corrupted Potato appears to specialize in a hybrid news/satire style of content. Newslo frequently makes Sarah Palin (or Bristol Palin) the target of race-based satire: previous pieces from that site have suggested the elder Palin lamented the end of slavery as a cause for President Obama’s election and separately suggested it be reinstated on a voluntary basis. A different satirical article said that Bristol Palin said black actors don’t get nominated for Oscars because they are difficult to distinguish from one another. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
corrupted potato
newslo
sarah palin
+1 more
slavery


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:31 May 2016
Updated:31 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

