Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows a giant alligator walking across a Florida golf course.							See Example( s )

A video purportedly showing a giant alligator walking across a golf course in Florida appeared in May 2016:
 
Talk about a hazard! A giant alligator took a stroll across the fairway, making his way to the lake beside the third hole at Buffalo Creek Golf Club.
Golfer Charles Helms took the video at the Buffalo Creek Golf Club in Palmetto, Florida. While it has been shared by several credible news sources, such as Time and The Guardian, many viewers were skeptical about the footage and claimed that it was a “CGI” alligator.  However, the footage — like the alligator —  is real. Course employee Wendy Schofield said that the enormous reptile frequents the golf course and has become the club’s unofficial mascot:
“People have heard that he is out here and that is all they want to see so they will bring spectators to ride so somebody can get a picture,” pro shop clerk Wendy Schofield told News 3. “He doesn’t bother anybody and they don’t bother him. …””
It is not uncommon to spot alligators roaming the golf courses in Florida. Another huge alligator earned fifteen minutes of social media fame when it strolled across a golf course in Englewood, Florida, in March 2015:
The size of the alligator featured in the footage at Buffalo Creek Golf Club is unknown, but Schofield estimated that the animal could be up to sixteen feet long.  According to Yale ecologist and large predator expert Adam Rosenblatt, however, it’s probably not that large: 
In general, people think alligators they see are much bigger than they actually are. The recent one that was filmed walking across a golf course in Florida was widely reported as 15 ft. long, but nobody measured it so nobody knows how long it is in reality. Given that only three alligators in Florida have ever officially been measured as longer than 14 ft., it is highly unlikely that the alligator on the golf course is 15 ft. long. My own educated guess is that the golf course gator is 12-13 ft. long.
As of 2014, the longest known credible record for an American alligator is 14 feet, 9.25 inches (450.0cm) long.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:31 May 2016
Updated:10 June 2016
John, Tara.   “Watch a Giant Alligator Take a Stroll Across a Florida Golf Course Like It’s Jurassic Park.”
    Time.   31 May 2016.
The Guardian.   “Giant Alligator Crosses Florida Golf Course – Video.”
     31 May 2016.
Forest, Ashley.   “Giant Alligator Roams Golf Course in Florida.”
    News 3 Las Vegas.   26 May 2016.
Brunell, Arnold.   “A New Record for the Maximum Length of the American Alligator.”
    Southeastern Naturalist.   September 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

