Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A rare black rose grows naturally in Turkey.							See Example( s )

On 25 May 2016, the Facebook page Higher Perspective published the above video purportedly showing a rare black rose that grows naturally in Turkey. Higher Perspective was not the first entity to make this claim. This rumor has been circulating since at least 2013, when RocketNews24 published a story about a rare black rose:

Until now, we never really understood what all the fuss was about roses. Women seem to love them, and men seem to spend inordinate amounts of money to purchase them for their sweethearts. But now that we’ve seen the pitch-black Turkish Halfeti Rose, we’re starting to understand that roses can be not only dangerous, kind of smelly and enchanting all at the same time, they can also be the perfect centerpiece of the most hardcore heavy metal album or low fantasy book cover of all time.
These roses, which appear perfectly black to the naked eye, are said to grow only in small quantities and only in the tiny village of Halfeti, Turkey. The unique soil conditions and pH levels of groundwater in the area – which seeps in from the Euphrates – create the deep crimson red color of the rose, which is, for all intents and purposes, solid black unless inspected very closely.
The origin of the black rose story followed a daisy chain of misinformation. RocketNews24 cited the Japanese-language blog Karapaia, which in turn cited a 2007 story published by Todays Zaman, which was reportedly based off a local news article published in Anatolia. Somewhere during the process, the rumor that black roses occur naturally in Turkey was born. 
Yet we found no evidence of black roses growing naturally in Turkey or any other part of the world. While very dark red roses (which can appear almost black) do grow in nature, the photographs featured in the Higher Perspective video, as well as the ones included in the Rocket News article, were either digitally manipulated or featured dyed roses:
The only thing close to a black rose are the very dark red roses referred to as Black Magic Roses or Bacarra Roses.  There is no such thing as a real black rose that Mother Nature has produced.  However roses can be tinted black to give a black color appearance.
For instance, the first rose featured in the Higher Perspective video was digitally darkened:

It should also be noted that many of these photographs were not associated with the claim that they were grown in Turkey until they were included in the RocketNews24 article published in 2013. When Todays Zaman published their article about the alleged “black rose,” they included a photograph of a dark red flower:
 
It is possible that there is a type of flower with extremely dark coloring that’s native to Turkey, but if it does exist, it’s not shown in these photographs.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
black rose
halfeti
Natural Phenomena
+1 more
turkey


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:27 May 2016
Updated:27 May 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

