Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump's son Eric said that Hispanic people should be sent back to Asia.							See Example( s )

On 20 May 2016, the entertainment web site Politicops published a fake news article reporting that Eric Trump said that his father (Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump) planned to send “Hispanics” “back to Asia” when he became president:
Trump Junior continued, “Like, for instance, I was very good at geography when I was in school. But, they don’t know that. And that’s just another example of how lazy the Hispanics are as a race. And the main reason why they’re so afraid of my dad is he’s going to deport them back to Asia when he wins the election. It’s a well-known fact that fear makes people to crazy things. It’s made them come and try to suck up to me so I’d help them get in my dad’s good graces. Yeah, good luck with that.”
“My father is not a stupid man, and I can tell you he didn’t father a stupid son, either,” Eric Trump added. “And when he does deport all these lazy Hispanics back to Asia where they came from, he’ll be doing that for two reasons. The first one is obvious – we don’t need lazy people in this country. The second is that’s part of his plan of taking back American jobs from China. That’s why he’ll send most of the Hispanics back to the Chinese capital of Bangkok, which is where most American jobs are located at the moment.”
However, Eric Trump never said that his father would send Hispanics “back to Asia.” Politicops, like its sister site Newslo, is a “hybrid” web site that publishes a mixture of news and fiction:
Newslo is the first hybrid News/Satire platform on the web. Readers come to us for a unique brand of entertainment and information that is enhanced by features like our fact-button, which allows readers to find what is fact and what is satire.
In this case, Politicops started with a real comment that Eric Trump made on a radio show explaining how Hispanics “couldn’t wait” for his father to become president:
People often talk about Hispanics,” Eric Trump said earlier this week on Irish radio’s RTE Radio1’s “Drivetime.”
“You know, I have more Hispanics come up to me telling me, ‘Listen, I can’t wait for your father to be president. He’s going to bring jobs back to the United States. He’s going to end the nonsense. He’s going to create good trade deals. He’s going to create better education. He’s going to create a better family structure.’”
Readers of Politicops can find out which portion of the article is fake and which portion is real by clicking on the “Show Facts / Hide Facts” button included at the top of articles:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Twitter
Published:24 May 2016
Updated:24 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

