Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The National Security Agency puts  toilet cameras in restrooms for "research purposes," and fines those who tamper with them.							See Example( s )

On 22 May 2016 the Facebook page “We Are Change” published the post embedded below, depicting a sign purportedly informing restroom users of the presence of National Security Agency (NSA) “toilet cameras”:

The sign read:
NOTICE
Toilet Cameras are for research purposes only.
Tampering with or disabling the toilet cameras is a Federal Crime punishable up to $8,500 in fines.
For Questions, Comments and Complaints please call 1 (800) 948 8488[.]
Captioned only “Huh?” in the original post, readers weren’t sure what to make of the sign (which bears what appears to be a NSA logo). Many took the photograph as legitimate.  However, the claim was easily debunked by looking at the “complaint line” information on the “NSA toilet cameras” sign — the phone number listed was not associated with the NSA, nor with any branch of the federal government:
@Lemeus19 1-800-948-8488
— Pizza Hut (@pizzahut) March 19, 2012

The inclusion of Pizza Hut’s customer service number was a clear indicator that the NSA toilet sign meme was in fact a prank, not an indication of big government watching the most private aspects of American lives. Not only was the sign a hoax, it’s an old one; it’s been circulating the web since at least 2013.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
fake signs
NSA
Signs Of The Times
+1 more
toilet cameras


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:23 May 2016
Updated:23 May 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

