Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs depict then-model Melania Trump (nee Knauss) posing provocatively for GQ magazine.							See Example( s )

I don't think Melania #Trump playing Security Agent on Trump Plane was ever part of #OpWhiteRose EXposed #Anonymous pic.twitter.com/58RlIcppgB
On 22 May 2016 the Facebook page “Proud Liberals” published the above-reproduced image purportedly depicting a bikini-clad Melania Trump (nee Knauss), wife of 2016 U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump, posing for GQ magazine, set alongside a picture of First Lady Michelle Obama:
Here’s Melania Trump with gun, thong & boots. Remember when Republicans complained about Michelle Obama’s arms?
The photographic comparison caused a stir, as well as questions as to whether the woman shown on the right was indeed Mrs. Trump. The latter issue was easily resolved, as on 4 March 2016 the British version of GQ published an item titled “The Future First Lady? See Melania Trump’s Nude Photo Shoot.” GQ noted that the photo shoot with which the image in question originated antedated Donald Trump’s presidential run by 15 years, and the original publication of the photographs took place before Knauss married the current GOP frontrunner:
Over 15 years ago we profiled Donald Trump’s then-girlfriend Melania Knauss. Now his wife, our naked profile shoot on his customised Boeing 727 featured Melania wearing handcuffs, wielding diamonds, and holding a chrome pistol (It was the lad mags era after all…) It makes for some interesting reading today, since his recent success in his latest run for president[.]
Melania Trump indeed enjoyed success as a model prior to her marriage to Donald Trump, and the cover of the January 2000 GQ issue suggests the pictures of Melania seen here were likely taken in late 1999:
Melania Trump’s career as a model would commonly call for her to pose for men’s magazine photo shoots as part of her job,  but they’ve been used here as part of an unfair comparison given the age of the photographs and the contexts in which they were taken.  Mrs. Obama is depicted posing in her capacity as First Lady, whereas Mrs. Trump is pictured from a time in her life when worked as a model and had yet to marry a man who would later seek the Republican nomination for the 2016 presidential election. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
election 2016
melania trump
+2 more
michelle obama
politics


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:23 May 2016
Updated:21 September 2016
GQ.    “The Future First Lady? See Melania Trump’s Nude Photo Shoot.”
    4 March 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

