Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Bruce Springsteen wrote an open letter apologizing for letting Donald Trump become president.					
On 8 February 2017, The Observer published an open letter ostensibly from musician Bruce Springsteen concerning the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States, titled “A Letter of Apology from Bruce Springsteen for Letting Trump Win”:
My name is Bruce Springsteen, and one day soon, when the windows of your mosques are smashed and the synagogues lie in ashes, when the skies are gray with dust and the sea has risen to wash away the roads, when the stars and stripes of our flag stand for discrimination and fear, I will wonder, could I have made a difference?
I have had to look at myself in the mirror. More importantly, I have had to look at my children, and consider, uncomfortably, the world they will inherit. And I wonder.
Could I have made a difference? Did I do everything I could have done?
This letter was not actually written by Bruce Springsteen.  Although the missive was not explicitly labeled as “satire,” The Observer dropped a few not-so-subtle hints to indicate that it was not an actual apology letter from The Boss.
First, the author identified in the byline of the “open letter” was not Bruce Springsteen, but Tim Sommer:

Additionally, the letter ended with the sign-off “Love, Bruce,” but an asterisk was appended to the word “Bruce,” and footnote following the letter explained the meaning of the asterisk: “*Not Actually Bruce:”

Finally, Bruce Springsteen did not publicize the letter on his social media accounts in the days following its publication, something he’d have been inclined to do if he were truly trying to get a message out to the public.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bruce springsteen
open letter
president trump
+1 more
trump


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:11 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

