Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			'Star Trek' star Patrick Stewart admitted he originally refused to see the 'Galaxy Quest' movie, but eventually he did so and greatly enjoyed the film.					
On 17 May 2016, the Facebook page “Star Trek Rocks My World” (among others) published an image of Star Trek: The Next Generation star Patrick Stewart along with the following quote from him about the 1999 spoof film Galaxy Quest superimposed upon it:
I had originally not wanted to see [Galaxy Quest] because I heard that it was making fun of Star Trek and then Jonathan Frakes rang me up and said ‘You must not miss this movie! See it on a Saturday night in a full theatre.’ And I did and of course I found it was brilliant. Brilliant.
No one laughed louder or longer in the cinema than I did, but the idea that the ship was saved and all of our heroes in that movie were saved simply by the fact that there were fans who did understand the scientific principles on which the ship worked was absolutely wonderful. And it was both funny and also touching in that it paid tribute to the dedication of these fans.
Fandom page members were quite fond of Stewart’s sentiment, and the image macro garnered thousands of shares among fans of Star Trek and sci-fi in general. However, some viewers questioned whether the fanservice aspect of the comment was too amusing to be authentic.

However, an archive of the BBC’s web site from 30 October 2002 does indeed attribute these words to an interview with Patrick Stewart:
Similar remarks made by Stewart about Galaxy Quest are captured in an archived London Times article from November 2007:
Best of all, [Stewart] loves the movie Galaxy Quest, a sublime Star Trek spoof. “Jonathan told me to see it. I said I didn’t want to see the piss taken out of me by Alan Rickman and the rest. He told me to see it in Santa Monica on a Saturday night. I did, and it was perfect, fantastic, one of my all-time favourites. They got it exactly right — that’s how it was, and the ending was right at the heart of the spirit of Star Trek.”
So the quotation is a genuine one, albeit one that was also some fourteen years old at the time of its May 2016 circulation. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
galaxy quest
patrick stewart
quote memes
+1 more
star trek


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:19 May 2016
Updated:19 May 2016
Appleyard, Brian.   “Patrick Stewart: Keep On Trekkin’.”
    The Sunday Times.   4 November 2007.
BBC2/BBCOnline.   “Interviews: Patrick Stewart.”
    (Undated.)  
The Questarian.   “Trek Talks: Galaxy Quest.”
    (Undated.)  
TVTropes.   “Fanservice.”
    (Undated.)  
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

