Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A woman's obituary said that she chose death over the prospect of voting for either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton.							See Example( s )

In May 2016, an image purportedly showing the obituary of a woman named Mary Anne Noland started circulating on Facebook, saying that she found had found death preferable to voting for either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump:
The obituary was wildly popular on social media, but many viewers who encountered this clipping were skeptical about its authenticity. After all, fake obituaries slamming politicians are not unheard of. This obituary, though, is genuine in the sense that it was published in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on 17 May 2016, who also referenced it in a separate article the following day:
Paid death notices are vignettes about a person’s life, as told by their family or friends. This isn’t the first time a paid death notice has been used to send a personal message to the world. Some have commented on favorite sports teams, places to visit, a drink of choice and, yes, politics.
All content published in The Times-Dispatch is reviewed before publication. In the case of Ms. Noland’s obituary, we’re not surprised by the response.
In other words, it’s true that Mary Anne Noland’s obituary reflects a tongue-in-cheek political statement about the upcoming presidential election that her family members or friends chose to insert into it. It’s not true, however (as some readers have assumed), that the wording of the obituary indicates Ms. Noland opted to take her own life rather than have to make a choice between voting for one of the two leading candidates.
The Richmond Times-Dispatch also pointed out that the obituary for Mary Anne Noland was not the first to mention politics. The obituary for Ernest Overbey Jr., for instance, ended with a call to “please vote for Donald Trump.” Similarly, the obituary for Katherine Michael Hinds said that “in lieu of flowers, do not vote for Donald Trump.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:18 May 2016
Updated:18 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

