Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump said that "Portuguese people are the same as Spanish, but with worse wine."							See Example( s )

A quote supposedly from Donald Trump that Portuguese people are the “same as Spanish but with worse wine” was widely circulated on Facebook in early 2016:
 
The above-displayed Facebook post redirected users to the “prank” web site ShareOnFB.com where readers were briefly presented with a fake news article:
The candidate makes another shocking comment, this time insulting the population of the european country of Portugal, known for it’s….
The above-quoted article was only available for a few seconds before the web site refreshed and informed people that they had been pranked:
 
The web site ShareOnFB.com allows users to create “pranks” that they can share with their friends on Facebook. The “frequently asked questions” section explained how the site works:
ShareOnFb is a site where you can create prank stories and share them on social media sites such as Facebook or Twitter…
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
fake quotes
portugal
+3 more
shareonfb.com
spain
wine


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:17 May 2016
Updated:17 May 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

