Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A woman gave birth to twins in a casket after her husband buried her alive.							See Example( s )

On 24 February 2016, the web site Now8News published an article reporting that a Florida woman gave birth to twins in a coffin after she was buried alive by her husband:
A set of newborn twin girls are recovering in a Florida hospital after a very gruesome, bizarre situation. Anna Duncan, 37, gave birth to twin girls after being buried alive by her estranged husband who she says “did not want to pay such a large amount of child support.”
… Reports state that as the family was saying their last goodbyes, they began hearing cries that sounded like an infant. “After the casket was lowered into the grave and covered with dirt, everyone who attended the funeral paid their last respects and tossed flowers onto the grave site,” said Clyde Harris. “But then we started hearing these cries, like babies crying. But there was no one around with an infant. They were accompanied by the screams of a woman.”
… Harris said they immediately called 911 to report the suspicion once they realized the sound was coming from underground. They immediately demanded for the groundskeepers to dig up the soft dirt that covered the casket. They retrieved the coffin, which was pried open by firefighters and discovered Anna Livingston and two newborn twin girls inside.
According to the official report, authorities stated that the discovery was a twisted plot to cover up an attempted murder crime. The original body of the deceased was switched last minute before the funeral with the body of the funeral director’s wife … Anna Livingston and her newborn twin girls are in stable condition recovering at a local hospital. Michael Livingston is being held on a $1 million bond and is facing attempted murder charges. The Jacksonville family has properly buried their son, Jerry Harris, in another nearby cemetery.
The report was reproduced across dozens of unreliable “viral news sites” after it was published:
 
The story was republished by a number of Facebook pages in May 2016. Neither Now8News nor any subsequent reproductions of the story featured a disclaimer that warned readers that the casket birth tale (like all other stories from those sites) was completely fabricated.
Previous Now8News hoaxes included reports that a man sexually assaulted a pig in a Walmart bathroom, aborted fetuses were ingredients of McDonald’s Chicken McNuggets, Walmart bananas were contaminated with a deadly parasitic worm, a woman was found engaged in a sex act with a sausage in a Walmart, a separate woman was arrested for sampling tampons in an aisle at a Walmart, and a man fed his unfaithful fiancee’s remains to her unsuspecting parents.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
boneyaad
empire herald
now8news
+1 more
racket report


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:17 May 2016
Updated:17 May 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

