Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a group of North Korean generals wearing medals on their shirtsleeves and pants.							See Example( s )

A photograph purportedly showing a group of North Korean generals covered in military medals (including their jacket sleeves and pants) is frequently circulated on humor web sites along with disparaging remarks about the country:
North Korea officers…. could easily be defeated with a magnet.
While some members of North Korea’s military have certainly been awarded a great number of accolades, the above-displayed photograph has been altered. The soldiers in the original image, which has been circulating since at least 2007, do not have medals on their sleeves or their pants:
 
While the exact origins of the above-displayed image are still unknown, we found no official photos of North Korean generals wearing military accolades on their pants. A photograph from 1995, however, shows a group of soldiers covered in a similar number of awards:


 
These images are frequently circulated along with the insinuation that the pictured soldiers do not deserve the medals they’re displaying, because the North Korean military has not seen combat for decades. However (putting aside that military medals are usually made out of gold, silver, or brass, which are non-magnetic materials), military medals are frequently awarded for non-combat accomplishments.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:16 May 2016
Updated:16 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

