Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hitler was named "Man Of The Year" by Time Magazine in 1938.							See Example( s )

A meme claiming that Adolf Hitler was named “Man of the Year” by Time Magazine was frequently shared on social media in 2016 as “proof” that the “mainstream media is not always reliable.”
It is undeniably true that the Nazi leader was given this title in 1938.  However, this meme is based on the false assumption that the “Man of the Year” awards are only granted to people who have had positive effects on the world:
TIME’s choices for Person of the Year are often controversial. Editors are asked to choose the person or thing that had the greatest impact on the news, for good or ill — guidelines that leave them no choice but to select a newsworthy — not necessarily praiseworthy — cover subject.
The magazine has nominated several controversial figures as “Man Of The Year” since the tradition started in 1927, including Joseph Stalin, Nikita Kruschchev, and Ayatullah Khomeini. Osama bin Laden was strongly considered in 2001, but the the award went to New York mayor Rudy Giuliani instead.
In Time’s 1938 “Man Of The Year” article, Hitler was labeled the “greatest threatening force that the democratic, freedom-loving world faces today.”  That was as much an endorsement of Hitler’s tactics in 1938 as it would be today: in other words, not at all.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:9 May 2016
Updated:9 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

