Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump's father, Fred Trump, ran a mayoral campaign advertisement called 'Dope Man' in 1969.					
On 11 October 2016, a video purportedly showing a 1969 campaign spot called “Dope Man” promoting Fred Trump, father of President Donald Trump, for election as mayor of New York City was posted to the “Historical Paroxysm” channel on YouTube, described as “A test ad for Fred Trump’s aborted mayoral campaign against John Lindsay.”
Athough Historical Paroxysm has since deleted their video, another version was uploaded to YouTube:
However, this was not a real advertisement (proposed or actual) for a Fred Trump mayoral campaign.
The primary clue that this video is fabricated comes from its source, the “Historical Paroxysm” YouTube channel, which states in its about section that the video shares “found footage from alternate realities.” However, the footage was taken from actual reality, where it was created (sans the fake Fred Trump voice over) for an anti-drug short film titled Day in the Death of Donny B:
Snippets from A Day in the Death of Donny B were also used in the music video for Tom Waits’ song “Way Down in the Hole”:
We found no record of Fred Trump’s hinting at undertaking a mayoral campaign in 1969. While he may have had an interest in the outcome of the race, claims that he created a campaign advertisement called “Dope Man” before dropping out of the race come from an alternative reality.
The ad gained greater prominence when it was referenced in an essay by Sidney Blumenthal published by the London Review of Books. The section mentioning the ad was eventually removed, and a disclaimer addressing it was added at the bottom of the article:
A paragraph referring to Fred Trump’s campaign for mayor of New York, although it accurately reflected Trump’s racial attitudes and his hostility towards Mayor John Lindsay, has been removed because the campaign ads referred to appear to be clever fakes.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
dope man
fred trump
+1 more
president trump


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:10 February 2017
Blumenthal, Sydney.   “A Short History of the Trump Family.”
    London Review Of Books.   16 February 2017.
Daly, Michael.   “How Donald’s Dad Fred Trump Tried to Kill Coney Island.”
    The Daily Beast.   26 March 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

