Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Obama is set to replace the bald eagle as the U.S.'s national animal.							See Example( s )

On 2 May 2016, disreputable web site American News published an article with a sensational title (“Obama To Replace National Bird The Bald Eagle With THIS”).  Despite the clickbait claim, the text of this article made no such argument:
According to recent reports, our nation is about to get a new animal—and it’s quite a departure from the bald eagle, which has been the sole symbol of the United States for 234 years.
Reports indicate that the National Bison Legacy Act has just been passed by Congress, and is expected to pass through the Senate next week. The act denotes the bison as America’s national mammal and a “historical symbol of the United States.”
The eagle will reportedly still represent the nation, but it will no longer be the sole animal doing so. If passed, the bison will join the bald eagle, the oak, and the rose as a symbol for our country.
Despite the title, the actual story was primarily based on factual information. The National Bison Legacy Act, which designated the bison as the national mammal of the United States, was passed by Congress at the end of April 2016. But while this legislation will give the United States its first national mammal, it will have no effect on the bald eagle’s status as the United States’ national bird, nor as its national symbol.
The text of the bill stated that the purpose of the National Bison Legacy Act is to adopt “the North American bison as the national mammal of the United States.” The legislation made no mention of changing or replacing the bald eagle’s status.
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bald eagle
barack obama
bison
+1 more
national symbol


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Yellowstone Wildlife Sanctuary
Published:4 May 2016
Updated:4 May 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

