Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Minutemen caught two CIA agents smuggling a sizable quantity of cocaine across the Mexican border.							See Example( s )

In late April 2015, the fake news outlet World News Daily Report published an article reporting that two Central Intelligence Agency agents were arrested by “minutemen” at the Mexican border while in possession of massive amounts of cocaine:
A group of minutemen watching the Mexican Border for illegal migrants and drug traffickers, have proceeded to the citizen arrest of two men in an SUV, carrying 1300 pounds of cocaine. The volunteers were completely astonished when the two arrestees pulled out CIA ID cards and explained they were actually carrying the drug as part of their duties and that the cargo belonged to the Central Intelligence Agency.
The incident took place last night, in the Chihuahuan desert, near the Texan city of El Paso. A group of seven minutemen saw a large black SUV drive rapidly across the border. They chased the vehicle in their own trucks and achieved to immobilize it after a chase of more than 15 miles.
The vigilantes arrested the two men on board and called the border patrol, who proceeded to search the vehicle. They discovered dozens of packages of cocaine, totalling an incredible 618.4 kilograms (1363 pounds).
For unclear reasons, the claim began circulating widely on Facebook in early May 2016, one year after it was originally published.  The image used by World News Daily Report dated back to at least 2014, and was unrelated to any CIA-involved incident at the border in 2015. There is no truth to the claim, as is consistently the case with content created by that web site.
World News Daily Report publishes nothing but outlandish fabrications alongside unrelated photographs to drive traffic and boost ad revenue via social media shares. Its disclaimer openly states that the site’s articles are made up of false information:
WNDR assumes however all responsibility for the satirical nature of its articles and for the fictional nature of their content. All characters appearing in the articles in this website — even those based on real people — are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle.
Previous World News Daily Report hoaxes included claims that an infant was born with stigmata in the Philippines, a lottery winner died after gold-plating his testicles, a 14-year-old virgin was impregnated solely by a flu shot, a slaughterhouse employee killed dozens of coworkers unnoticed for twenty years, a donor heart recipient received an organ from an executed serial killer and went on to carry out a killing spree, a man’s genitals were bitten off during an attempted sexual assault of a pit bull, a meth-using babysitter ate a small child while high, a Smithsonian employee was discovered “raping” a mummy, an overweight man sued Golden Corral because he was ejected for overstaying his welcome, rat meat was sold as chicken wings nationwide before the 2016 Super Bowl, a woman broke a world record by giving birth to 14 children by 14 different fathers, a Nazi sub surfaced in the Great Lakes, a mother sued a tampon company for taking her daughter’s virginity, and a 101-year-old Italian woman gave birth to a healthy baby.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Expert Infantry/Flickr
Published:3 May 2016
Updated:3 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

