Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is sending out pink “Woman Cards” to those who donate to her campaign.							See Example( s )

On 26 April 2016, Republican candidate Donald Trump turned his attention on Democrat Hillary Clinton instead of his Republican rivals. From the lobby of Trump Tower, he said, “The only thing she has is the woman card; she’s got nothing else going. And frankly, if Hillary Clinton were a man, I don’t think she’d get five percent of the vote.”
Clinton took the remarks in stride: “If fighting for women’s health care and paid family leave and equal pay is playing the woman card, then deal me in!”
Trump expanded upon his comments the next day during the “Morning Joe” television program: “I haven’t quite recovered – it’s early in the morning – from her shouting that message.” According to the Washington Post, Trump acknowledged that he knew he was courting charges of sexism, “I know a lot of people would say you can’t say that about a woman, because of course a woman doesn’t shout.”
On Wednesday, Clinton’s campaign wrote, “They might make flashy headlines, but Trump’s comments aren’t a joke. Hillary can handle these attacks. Millions of women shouldn’t have to.”
By Thursday evening, Clinton began turning Trump’s attacks against him. She tweeted to her followers:
 
Her campaign web site currently shows the following:
 
The bottom right of the card includes her tagline from Wednesday: “Deal me in.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
2016 presidential campaign
donald trump
hillary clinton
+2 more
woman card
women's rights


Fact Checker:
Stephanie Larsen

Published:30 April 2016
Updated:30 April 2016
Bump, Philip.    “Why Donald Trump Should Be Careful About that Whole ‘Woman Card’ Thing.”
Washington Post.     27 April 2016.
Dionne Jr., E.J.    “Trump Escalates His Gender War.”
Washington Post.     27 April 2016.
Gearan, Anne, and Zezima, Katie.    “It’s Not Sexist, It’s True.”
Washington Post.     27 April 2016.
Jackson, David M.      “Clinton Offers Donors Their Own ‘Woman Card.”
  USA Today.    29 April 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

