Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The American Psychiatric Association condones pedophilia and says it is normal to be sexually attracted to children.					
On 25 April 2016, the web site Patriot Nation published an article reporting that the American Psychiatric Association (APA) now officially condones pedophilia, and that the group had deemed it “normal” for adults to be sexually attracted to children.  The article implied that growing acceptance of gay and transgender rights had created a cascade of escalating acceptance for other behaviors previously regarded as deviant:
Ever since the government began its quest to “normalize” homosexuality and other perverse sexual behavior, conservatives have been saying it’s a slippery slope. After what happened at an academic conference at the University of Cambridge, it’s safe to say they were right.
The “Classifying Sex: Debating DSM-5” conference featured speakers who condoned pedophilia as “natural and normal for males.”
A proposal was being discussed which would essentially normalize hebephilia, the sexual preference for children in early puberty, typically 11 to 14-year-olds. The argument was made that since children are reaching puberty earlier than ever before, sex with 11 to 14-year-olds should not be considered wrong.
That this was even a topic of discussion among the worlds leading psychiatrists is incredibly alarming, but the conference took matters one step further by claiming that “at least a sizable minority of normal males would like to have sex with children, and normal males are aroused by children.”
Ultimately, the proposal to include hebephilia as a legitimate disorder in the new edition of the American Psychiatric Association manual was defeated, and sex offenders are thrilled.
The article (which didn’t offer very many details at all) cited a January 2016 blog post about the purported academic conference where this pronouncement was made, stating that the event had occurred “last year”:
These sentiments were discussed at a conference that took place last year to discuss the classification of sexuality in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), the standard international psychiatric manual used by the legal system.
