Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Nike makes their sneakers with elephant skins.							See Example( s )

On 27 April 2016, a meme started circulating on Facebook that claimed Nike was using elephant hides to make its shoes, and asking people to boycott the company until it stopped
This Facebook post didn’t link to any material backing up its claim, and we could not uncover any news reports accusing Nike of making its shoes out of elephant skins. It is possible that this accusation was based off of confusion regarding Nike’s “elephant print” shoes. “Elephant print,” however, refers to the design on the sneaker and not the material.
The only other reference we could uncover regarding Nike and elephants occurred when the company made a shoe for an elephant, not from one:

Several years ago, Nike learned of an elephant that had one leg shorter than the others. To help the elephant find its balance, Nike manufactured this massive leather shoe, complete with laces and buckles at the heel. The elephant was fitted for the shoe using lifts. Pink remnants on the sides are what’s left from the Swoosh logos that used to adorn the sides.
On 28 April 2016, Facebook user Jason Gunn Burton, who originally posted the “Just Boycott It” message, added some additional information about Nike’s alleged elephant skin shoes. A recent BBC report into the “super-rich’s insatiable appetite for luxury goods” highlighted a sneaker that really was made with the hide of an elephant:

This shoe, however, was not created by Nike.  The sneakers were designed by PMK Customs (a high-end sneaker customization company originally called “Pimp My Kicks”) and made from an Air Jordan 1, which was then retrofitted with several different animal skins. The shoes, dubbed the “Brooklyn Zoos,” feature elephant, stingray, lizard, crocodile, ostrich hides, and can fetch up to $20,000.  PMK Customs does work with the Nike brand (and others) as well, but neither Nike nor any other brand has a say in how the shoes are altered.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Business
elephant
elephant skin
+1 more
nike


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:29 April 2016
Updated:29 April 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

