Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			An image shows a curt response from a Target customer service representative.							See Example( s )

In April 2016, thousands of people flocked to Target’s social media profiles to complain about a policy that allowed transgender individuals to use the restroom which corresponded with their gender identity. While many customers received earnest responses from genuine Target customer service representatives, others were contacted by accounts that were not associated with the store.
The above-displayed image, for instance, was not posted by an official Target account.  The image was posted by @Customer_Assist, or a similar Twitter account, whose purpose was to troll individuals (in this case, angry people opposed to Target’s bathroom policy):
 
This Twitter account is not the official customer service account of Target stores. @Customer_Assist was created a few days after Target confirmed its policy, and doesn’t carry the blue “verified” symbol that appears on Target’s official account.
Target’s official customer service Twitter account can be found at @AskTarget. That account has also been responding to complaints, but these responses are much more diplomatic than those employed above:
 
The @AskTarget account also denied that the viral curt response came from an official Target representative:

This isn’t the first time that someone has impersonated customer service agents online. Fraudulent “customer service” representatives insulted customers who criticized Campbell’s Soup after the company produced a video of two gay dads, ridiculed those opposed to Dorito’s “rainbow chips,” and mocked people who complained about Target’s gender-neutral clothing.
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Business
customer service
target
+1 more
transgender


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:27 April 2016
Updated:27 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

