Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			On 1 May 2016, Saturn will be prominently visible in both the day and night sky.							See Example( s )

wow I can't wait
Always wanted to see Saturn up close pic.twitter.com/CGD0a0uzTp
In April 2016, the above-reproduced meme began circulating on Facebook and Twitter, claiming that in May 2016 Saturn would appear prominently in the sky (alongside a mockup of the purported event):
On 5/1/16 Saturn will be the closest to the Earth it has ever been.
It will look like this.
As with prior hoaxes involving a pink moon, a green moon, and various other events in the sky, the Saturn meme includes no supplementary information.
The web site Sea and Sky maintains a comprehensive astronomy calendar. While the month of May 2016 was a fairly busy one in the sky (including an expected meteor shower and a transit of Mercury across the sun), no events involving Saturn are expected in that timeframe — especially one that is obviously scientifically impossible.
On 3 June 2016, the site has an event listed titled “Saturn at Opposition,” but while Saturn might be visible, it won’t take over the sky:
The ringed planet will be at its closest approach to Earth and its face will be fully illuminated by the Sun. It will be brighter than any other time of the year and will be visible all night long. This is the best time to view and photograph Saturn and its moons. A medium-sized or larger telescope will allow you to see Saturn’s rings and a few of its brightest moons.
Despite the meme, there is no indication that simply looking out of a window during the day will provide a stunning view of Saturn on the horizon.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bad science memes
saturn
saturn at opposition
+3 more
space
space hoaxes
space memes


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:27 April 2016
Updated:27 April 2016
Sea and Sky.   “Astronomy Calendar of Celestial Events for Calendar Year 2016.”

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

