Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Mormon church wants to limit sales of Vaseline and Kleenex in order to curb masturbation.							See Example( s )

On 22 April 2016, the Business Standard News (aka “BS News”) published an article reporting that the Mormon Church was urging the state government of Utah to limit sales of Vaseline and Kleenex in order to more effectively curb masturbation:
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints has declared war against masturbation, which they conclude is seriously harming the lives of young people. And they have decided to go after supplies that potential masturbators might need.
Bob Whitbread, LDS spokesperson, said the church is going to urge Utah Gov. Gary Herbert to impose limits on the sale of Vaseline and Kleenex.
“If a young man is buying large supplies of these items, it’s evident he has fallen prey to masturbation,” Whitbread said.
There is no truth to the above-quoted story. Business Standard News is an entertainment and satirical news web site that does not publish factual stories. The site hinted at the fictional nature of its content in their tagline (“BS News, keeping it real”) and described the site as “parody” on its “About” page:
The Business Standard News is a satirical site designed to parody the 24-hour news cycle. The stories are outlandish, but reality is so strange nowadays they could be true.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Facebook
Published:26 April 2016
Updated:26 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

