Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A paramedic saved the doctor who saved his life as a baby.							See Example( s )

On 18 April 2016, the “Unbelievable Facts” Facebook page posted the above-displayed image purportedly showing a paramedic and a doctor who saved each other’s lives:
In 1981, a pediatrician saved the life of a 3.2-pound premature baby boy by working around the clock to beat the odds and stabilize him. In 2011, the pediatrician was pinned inside a burning vehicle after a car collision, but was saved by the premature baby, who had grown up to become a paramedic.
The story seems like the most farfetched of urban legends, but it is in fact true. The photograph was taken from a news story from Los Angeles-area outlet KTLA on 29 March 2015, and shows Dr. Michael Shannon, Chris Trokey, and three other firefighters from Orange County Fire Authority’s Paramedic Engine 29.
According to KTLA, Shannon saved Trokey’s life in 1981, just after he was born:
Trokey was just 3.2 pounds at birth, and doctors had initially gave him a 50/50 chance at surviving. But his pediatrician — Dr. Shannon — helped save his life, staying with the infant around the clock until his health improved and he was stable.
Trokey returned the favor in 2011, when Dr. Shannon was involved in a car accident:
Firefighters from Paramedic Engine 29 were returning from another call and responded within minutes to the fiery crash.
By the time they arrived, Shannon’s vehicle was also ablaze and the flames were burning his legs. Fire crews then worked to extinguish the flames and rescue him using the Jaws of Life.
The seriously injured Shannon was taken to Mission Hospital in Mission Viejo where he spent the next 45 days recovering from internal injuries. He also had to have two of his toes amputated.
Among those who had helped save Shannon that day was Orange County Fire Authority paramedic Chris Trokey, whose own life had been saved 30 years earlier by the pediatrician.
“I didn’t know about until I went to the hospital and started talking about it, Dr. Shannon. And I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, Dr. Shannon?’” Trokey recalled on Sunday. “That’s when I found out.”
The photograph used in the meme was taken in 2015, when the two reunited for a charity event.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
baby
doctor
improbable reunions
+1 more
People


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Yahoo News
Published:25 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

