Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			When someone asked Eric Clapton what it was like to be the greatest guitar player in the world, he responded: "I don't know, ask Prince."							See Example( s )

Eric Clapton was asked about how it felt to be the world's best guitarist.
In the wake of Prince’s sudden death on 21 April 2016, social media lit up with memories and quotes in meme form, including a particularly complimentary one attributed to fellow musician Eric Clapton:
Eric Clapton was asked about how it felt to be the world’s best guitarist.
His response: “I don’t know. Ask Prince.”
This purported response is one Clapton is extremely unlikely to have made (in anything but jest), as it follows exactly the narrative of a decades-old (false) urban legend in which either Jimi Hendrix or Clapton himself supposedly answered the same question, in equally surprising fashion, by saying that it should instead have been posed to Phil Keaggy:
Jimi Hendrix was on the Tonight Show one time in the late 60s. Johnny Carson turned and asked him how it felt to be the greatest guitarist ever. Hendrix quickly responded: “I don’t know. You’d have to ask Phil Keaggy.”
Other versions of the same quote have long circulated involving different musicians, such as a July 2013 post in which Hendrix was reported as saying of Rory Gallagher:
Rory was the best. Walk on hot coals from Irish Tour. Just sit back and listen, nobody else could play it like that. When Jimi Hendrix was asked whats it feel like to be the best guitarist in the world he said “You better ask Rory Gallagher” John Lennon went to see Rory and said “I have seen the future of Rock n Roll, its Rory Gallagher” Just listen!
While Prince is regarded as a fine musician, he wasn’t necessarily seen as being in the top echelon of world-class guitarists by his fellow axe men. Rolling Stones‘ 2003 list of the “Top 100 Guitarists of All Time” completely omitted him (although he was came in at #33 in a later version).  Clapton and Hendrix, however, regularly rank at the top of the list.
The specious Clapton quote wasn’t the first myth of its sort to follow a celebrity death in 2016. After the passing of actor Alan Rickman in January 2016, fans shared a touching (but completely fabricated) remark about his fondness for the Harry Potter series.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Artists
eric clapton
music
+1 more
prince


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:22 April 2016
Updated:22 April 2016
Solomon, Dan.    “Definitive Proof Prince Is the Best Guitar Player Who Ever Lived.”
Fast Company.     21 April 2016.
BBC Radio 4.     “Desert Island Discs: Eric Clapton.”
29 July 1990.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

