Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The UK issued a travel advisory for LGBT citizens visiting the United States after Mississippi and North Carolina passed controversial laws.							See Example( s )

United Kingdom issues travel advisory for LGBT citizens visiting NC? 

How bad is North Carolina's law? Foreign state departments are issuing travel advisories about it https://t.co/fJjSMZw15h — Matthew Martin (@hyperplanes) April 20, 2016

In April 2016, a number of state-level debates over “religious freedom” and “bathroom bills” continued to smolder, primarily focusing on the passage of a controversial piece of legislation in North Carolina known as HB2.
On 19 April 2016, retailer Target was drawn into the dispute after enacting a policy granting all customers and staff access to use bathrooms corresponding to their gender identities, and musician Bruce Springsteen canceled upcoming shows in North Carolina in protest over HB2.
Not long afterwards, the United Kingdom’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued a formal travel advisory to British citizens regarding “local laws and customs” in the United States that posed a potential danger to gay and transgender travelers:
The US is an extremely diverse society and attitudes towards LGBT people differ hugely across the country. LGBT travellers may be affected by legislation passed recently in the states of North Carolina and Mississippi. Before travelling please read our general travel advice for the LGBT community. You can find more detail on LGBT issues in the US on the website of the Human Rights Campaign.
The states of Mississippi and North Carolina were specifically cited as areas of caution for LGBT travelers:
 
While some readers appeared skeptical of the advisory’s authenticity, a visit to the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s “Foreign Travel Advice” page for the United States demonstrates that the warning is genuine.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
bathroom bill
HB2
lgbt
+2 more
travel advisory
travel warning


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:torbakhopper/Flickr
Published:21 April 2016
Updated:21 April 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

