Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A new law in South Africa requires people with HIV to mark their genitals.							See Example( s )

On 18 April 2016, the entertainment web site WittyFeed published an article reporting that South Africa had passed a law requiring people with human immunodeficiency virus to get a tattoo on or near their genitals marking them as HIV-positive:
According to a recent law passed in South Africa, all HIV-positive people will be marked near their genitals by year end. They will be marked with an HIV tattoo that will reflect their identity. President Zuma signed a bill that seems to be the biggest step in the history of time. Jacob Zuma after signing the bill said, “The mark is to protect those who can’t say no to sex. I mean if you can’t read between the lines, you can read between the legs because there is where the status will be tattooed.”
While HIV is undeniably a concern in South Africa, this story is not real.
WittyFeed is not explicitly a fake news publication, but the web site allows anyone to post their own content with minimal (or nonexistent) fact-checking. In this case, someone aggregated a fake news article that was originally published in January 2015 (and then republished in January 2016) on the South African web site SatireNews. 
Since then, this story about HIV genital tattoos has been reported by dozens of disreputable web sites. While South Africa’s president Jacob Zuma has not commented on this story, Justice Edwin Cameron of the Constitutional Court of South Africa told the HIV Justice Network that the article was “utterly far-fetched and implausible.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
HIV
satire news
south africa
+2 more
tattoo
wittyfeed


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:19 April 2016
Updated:19 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

