Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Education Secretary Betsy DeVos ordered that all classroom globes be flattened.							See Example( s )

Devos' first order: flatten all globes in public schools so the kids will see the earth like God intended. I guess God made earth flat.
On 8 February 2017, the Huffington Post published an article suggesting that newly-confirmed Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos had ordered the immediate “flattening” of classroom globes, presumably due to her belief that the Earth is flat:
Upon hearing of her extremely narrow Senate confirmation, newly confirmed Education Secretary Betsy DeVos issued an order that all globes being used in any American school are to be “flattened like God made it just 6,000 years ago.”
DeVos was confirmed in the Senate 51-50, with the deciding vote being cast by Vice President, and 2015 winner of the “Lantern-Jawed Bigot of the Year Award” from Christofascists Weekly, Mike Pence. When Pence broke the tie, it was the first time since 2008 that a Senate vote had to be broken in such a way. Perhaps most notably, this was the first time in our nation’s 240-year history that a cabinet member had to be confirmed in such a way.
“Sure, I was literally dragged across the finish line by Vice President Pence,” DeVos said in an email to the DOE staffers directing the globe flattening edict, “but elections have consequences. Apparently so does giving hundreds of millions of dollars to campaigns.”
Immediately preceding the content of the article was a disclaimer stating that “You can read more satirical news items like this every day on The Political Garbage Chute.”
Since Huffington Post articles do not typically incorporate satire, many readers accepted the headline at face value. A number of those viewers might have seen the headline on social media, noted that it was attributed to Huffington Post, and assumed it represented real news without clicking through to read the underlying article.
Huffington Post‘s forays into satire previously confused readers with an October 2016 article that suggested Dick Cheney would be jailed for 20 years on war crimes charges.
The Huffington Post‘s confusion is not without precedent. New Yorker
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Shutterstock
Published:9 February 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

