Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The horse's head that appeared in an iconic scene in the film The Godfather was real.					
Francis Ford Coppola’s 1972 crime drama The Godfather remains a hugely influential film decades after its release, and perhaps the one scene from that movie most often referenced in pop culture is one in which producer Jack Woltz, who unwisely refused a request from the Corleone family to cast Johnny Fontane (Don Corleone’s godson) in his new film, awoke to find the severed head of his prize thoroughbred in his bed: 

Even those who haven’t actually seen the famous film itself probably recognize The Godfather as the origin of the “horse head scene” when they encounter references to it in other works of pop culture:

The Godfather was shot about a decade before the Screen Actors Guild adopted the American Humane Society’s “Guidelines for the Safe Use of Animals in Filmed Media” [PDF], so it’s reasonable to be concerned that at least one horse was sacrificed for the film. It’s true that the horse’s head in The Godfather was genuine, but untrue that the animal it came from was killed specifically for that scene:
The studio had encouraged Francis Ford Coppola to use a fake horse head, but he didn’t like the mock-up. His scouts found a horse ready for slaughter at a dog-food plant in New Jersey. The art director picked one that looked like the horse in the film and said, “When that one is slaughtered, send us the head.” Coppola later remembered, “One day, a crate with dry ice came with this horse’s head in it.”
The authenticity of the horse’s head was addressed by Coppola after the 2001 release of The Godfather DVD Collection, in which the filmmaker recalled that animal rights activists were troubled by the imagery:
Coppola also reports that he received heated letters from animal activists regarding the horse’s head that is found in the bed of Hollywood producer Jack Woltz (John Marley). They thought the filmmakers had killed a horse for the scene. It was in fact a real head, Coppola says, but it came from a slaughterhouse where horses were being destroyed for dog food. He says a member of the production went to the company, chose a horse that resembled Woltz’s prized thoroughbred and asked that when the time came, the head be sent to the filmmakers. Shortly thereafter, the company sent them a box with the head wrapped in ice.
And so one of the most memorable scenes in movie history was born.
Another movie’s animals were perhaps not so lucky.  Pernicious, but unverified rumors about the 1970 motion picture Patton claim that mules were shot, clubbed to death, or poisoned during its filming — charges that 20th-Century Fox vehemently denied.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:8 April 2016
Updated:11 May 2017
King, Susan.    “Godfather ‘Goodies.'”
      Los Angeles Times.     11 October 2001.
Rawlings, Nate.     “The Anniversary You Can’t Refuse: 40 Things You Didn’t Know About The Godfather.”
      Time.     14 March 2012.
American Humane Association.     “Guidelines for the Safe Use of Animals in Filmed Media.”
      June 2009.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

