Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a 736-pound catfish caught in the Mississippi River.					
Urban legendry is rife with tales of monstrously large catfish glimpsed lurking at the base of dams or pulled out of murky waters by anglers, and on 1 April 2016 RiverBender.com played on those legends by publishing a photograph documenting fisherman Kato “Mudcat” Mudger’s having hauled a 736-pound catfish out of the Mississippi river:
Rumors of a monster catfish living in the Mississippi River have been told for generations by natives up and down the mighty waterway that divides the Western U.S. from the East.
Although most simply enjoy telling their version of the story, many claim to have actually seen it, yet some never believed it to be true.
The catfish weighed in at 736 lbs. Experts say the fish, a Mekong giant catfish, was around 170 years old and never seen in this part of the world.
However, this photograph and story were just humorous fabrications posted on 1 April 2016, otherwise known as April Fool’s Day. The image that accompanied the article actually shows an average-sized flathead catfish (which grow to about five feet in length), not a Mekong Giant Catfish.  The lower portion of a human torso was added to a photograph of a flathead to create the illusion of a much larger catfish:

National Geographic notes that Mekong Giant Catfish can weigh up to 650 pounds. So even though a 736-pound Mekong Giant Catfish might not be completely outside the realm of possibility, these fish mainly live in the Mekong River system of Southeast Asia and thus are highly unlikely to be caught by fishermen trawling the waters of the Mississippi River.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:4 April 2016
Updated:4 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

