Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Lunar eclipses happen only during full moons.					
Prior to the occurrence of a penumbral lunar eclipse on 10 February 2017, a number of news outlets ran headlines suggesting that this celestial event would be even more rare because viewers would get to experience three events at the same time: A full moon, a lunar eclipse, and a comet (viewable with binoculars).
The Washington Post, for example, ran with the following headline and lede:

A full moon, lunar eclipse and comet all in one night? Here’s how to watch it Friday.

USA Today

Triple treat: Eclipse, comet, full moon all coming Friday night

While the close approach of a comet during an eclipse is rare, the presence of a full moon during an eclipse is required. The orbital arrangement of the sun, earth, and moon necessary for an eclipse to occur only happens during a full moon, as explained by the European Space Agency:

A lunar eclipse occurs when the Earth comes between the Sun and the Moon and the Earth’s shadow passes over the Moon. This phenomenon can be seen by any observer on Earth for whom the Moon is above the horizon. Lunar eclipses occur at the time of a Full Moon, but not every Full Moon, because the Moon has to be near one of the nodes of intersection between its orbit and the ecliptic plane.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Alex Kasprak

Featured Image:Shutterstock
Published:9 February 2017
European Space Agency.   “Lunar Eclipse Overview”
21 September 2006.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

