Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows a 10-year-old Amy Winehouse singing "What A Difference A Day Makes."							See Example( s )

A popular video showing a young girl with a melodious voice singing the standard “What a Diff’rence a Day Makes” has been racking up millions of views since August 2015.  A claim that is frequently shared alongside the video is that it shows a young Amy Winehouse.
While the video does show a young girl with impressive vocal skills, that little girl is not Amy Winehouse at age ten, nor is it even a ten-year-old. The video shows eight-year-old Angelina Jordan performing on the TV 2 show Allsang på grensen on 3 June 2014:
Amazing! 8 year old Angelina Jordan, winner of Norway’s Got Talent 2014, performs Dinah Washington’s “What a Difference a Day Made” on the opening show of TV 2 singalong summer hit “Allsang på grensen” on Thursday June 3rd 2014.

The singer herself (who bears little resemblance to Amy Winehouse at age eight, or any age, although Jordan’s deep, wide-ranging voice does sound like Winehouse’s) could be a clue that the video wasn’t her. Another is that the hair and clothing fashions are contemporary as of the mid-2010s, not at all resembling styles from 1993, when Winehouse would have been ten years old.  Furthermore, the quality and style of the video is clearly high-definition, nothing at all like what might be shot on a consumer camera or even aired on television in 1993 or 1994.
While we couldn’t uncover any videos of Amy Winehouse singing at age 10 to compare to the video of Angelina Jordan, a clip of Winehouse singing “Happy Birthday” at age 14 was included in the biopic Amy:

As of December 2017, this video is also circulating with the claim that it shows Elvis Presley’s granddaughter. It does not.
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Youtube Screenshot
Published:30 March 2016
Updated:4 December 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

