Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A 101-year-old Italian woman gave birth after an ovarian transplant.							See Example( s )

I can't imagine how a body can spit out 16 kids, let alone the 17th child at the age of 101. Impressive. https://t.co/3h0BmUZPVh
On 7 January 2016, the web site World News Daily Report published an article claiming that a 101-year-old Italian woman gave birth after a successful ovarian transplant:
NAPOLI | Anatolia Vertadella, a 101-year-old Italian woman, has given birth to a 9-pound baby after a controversial ovary transplant widely criticized by medical professionals because of her advanced age, reports the Rivista Napoli.
The illegal and controversial surgical operation was done in a private clinic in Turkey, where European laws on ovary transplants do not apply, admits the centennial mother who does not wish to disclose the name of the clinic where the operation was undertaken.
“I am very grateful to all the team of doctors who decided to go on with the operation,” she admitted in tears. “I am so grateful to have given birth to my 17th child. This is a true blessing and a testament to the power of the creator,” she told local reporters.
As with all of World News Daily Report‘s content, the claim was completely fabricated. The article swiped an unrelated image from a Reddit thread with the title, “101 years difference.” In that thread, the top-voted comment claimed:
For anyone interested, I posted this on here 2 days ago. This is a picture of my cousin’s two week old baby. It captures a truly profound moment. I know there are a shit ton of misanthropic redditors out there that would much rather stare at dog pictures all day, but I think this is fucking beautiful.
World News Daily Report regularly publishes outlandish and false claims alongside repurposed photographs in order to attract social media shares, traffic, and the ad revenue that the stories generate. Its disclaimer plainly states that the site’s articles are fabricated:
WNDR assumes however all responsibility for the satirical nature of its articles and for the fictional nature of their content. All characters appearing in the articles in this website — even those based on real people — are entirely fictional and any resemblance between them and any persons, living, dead, or undead is purely a miracle.
Other World News Daily Report hoaxes included claims that an infant in the Philippines was born with stigmata, a lottery winner died after gold-plating his genitals, a 14-year-old virgin was impregnated solely by a flu shot, a slaughterhouse employee murdered dozens of coworkers across a span of twenty years without being found out, a donor heart recipient went on a killing spree after receiving an organ from an executed serial killer, a man’s genitals were chewed off during the attempted sexual assault of a pit bull, a meth-using babysitter ate a toddler, a Smithsonian employee was caught “raping” a mummy, an overweight man sued Golden Corral after he was kicked out for staying too long, rat meat was sold nationwide as chicken wings before the 2016 Super Bowl, a woman broke a world record by giving birth to 14 children by 14 different men, and a Nazi sub surfaced in the Great Lakes.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:30 March 2016
Updated:30 March 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

