Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Getting your hair washed at a beauty salon can, in rare cases, increase the chances of a stroke.							See Example( s )

In January 2014, a woman in San Diego, California, went to a local salon to get her hair done.  What happened next sounds like the most nightmarish of urban legends: the angle and degree she was tilted in the chair and the way her head tipped back over the sink while the stylist was washing her hair caused Elizabeth Smith to have a stroke two weeks later:
“I vomited, my head became hot and I couldn’t stand. I had weakness in my arms and legs. They didn’t think I was going to live,” said Smith, choking back tears.
Smith says she could hardly believe what nearly killed her.
Her doctors pointed to her time in the shampoo chair. Beauty Parlor Stroke Syndrome is what they called it. It’s a rare but documented condition.
Multiple doctors who saw Smith say when her neck was bent backwards, it hyperextended, her vertebrae slicing an artery. A clot began forming, later causing a stroke.
“Several of Ms. Smith’s neurologists confirmed with her that the stroke was caused by the vertebra dissecting her artery during her hair wash,” said Smith’s attorney Carree Nahama.
The danger is real, although the probability of it happening is low. A study that came out in 1993, subsequently covered by the New York Times, found that older people have a higher risk of a stroke during or after a visit to the beauty salon (Smith was in her late 40s at the time):
The patients suffered from a variety of complaints attributable to poor blood flow in arteries leading through the neck to the back of the brain, including severe dizziness, imbalance and facial numbness. Four out of five suffered strokes leading to permanent neurologic damage.
“In older people, neck motion beyond a certain degree can be extremely dangerous, particularly hyperextension and rotation,” said Dr. Weintraub, chief of neurology at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y., referring to backward arching and twisting.
He and others have suggested that patients receiving anesthesia or undergoing prolonged dental work may also be vulnerable, since they too have their necks arched back abnormally for prolonged periods.
A 2006 study also looked into the issue, saying while it probably occurred more than previously thought, the risk of stroke in these cases was easily alleviated:
Taken together, hyperextension combined with hanging the head backwards in a hair washbasin can be seen as a risk factor for posterior circulation ischemia. It probably occurs more often than assumed and a number of patients may report about previous dizziness episodes under the same conditions when asked specifically. It can be prevented by changing the shampoo routine from the hanging head position to a flexed or neutral position.
Dr. Scott Olson, a vascular neurologist at the University of California, San Diego, told us that while he hasn’t seen this specific case, he has seen this particular injury (more commonly called a “vertebral artery dissection,” which can lead to subsequent clotting and stroke) and it’s not unprecedented:
It’s pretty much a fluke. I have seen people who’ve had this happen while surfing, they happen after dental visits.  I had an auto mechanic who was working on a car for a day and had his head hanging over a creeper… I had a patient fall asleep in a movie theater and ended up having a dissection.
[But] …It’s like a lot of things in life where it’s the same thing you’ve done. I think people should not be inordinately worried about it.  I mean, tens of thousands of people across this country have their hair washed at salons every day. It’s very statistically uncommon.
He says there are signs to watch for after a potential injury:
Things people should pay attention to, should be concerned about? Pain on one side of the neck after extension, and obviously, any neurologic symptoms like vertigo. There’s some genetic disorders, like Marfan Syndrome, hyperextensible joints, or connective tissue disease that will make you more prone.
Elizabeth Smith says she racked up $250,000 in medical bills and has permanently lost part of her vision and mobility.  She is now suing the salon for damages.
On 30 March 2016, we spoke to Smith.  She told us:
I had no idea that the story would go on, and I’m glad that it has.
The two big skepticisms really are — people think that you feel something, but you feel nothing, because your artery has no nerves, so you feel nothing when it happens. So just because you’re like “oh, I’m comfortable,” doesn’t mean it hasn’t happened.
The other thing is that the delay from injury to stroke is because you get a little bit of a bleed, and a little bleed won’t clog or occlude your artery. It takes your body time to build a clot big enough to do the damage, roughly two weeks. For me, it was 8 days, but that wasn’t the full stroke.
Just don’t bend your neck back, literally, at all. It can be something as simple as saying, “put five or six towels down.” Don’t bend your neck back, no matter how comfortable you are, or what your stylist says.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Brooke Binkowski

Featured Image:Flickr/David Farrell-Shaw
Published:25 March 2016
Updated:31 March 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

