Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows the "moment the explosion" of a terrorist attack occurred in the Brussels airport on 22 March 2016. .							See Example( s )

On 22 March 2016, a terrorist attack involving explosives detonated at an airport and a subway station in Brussels, Belgium, killed at least 30 people:
The Islamic State claimed responsibility for a series of deadly terrorist attacks that struck Brussels, killing at least 30 people at the city’s main international airport and in a subway station at the heart of the city, near the headquarters of the European Union.
The deadly violence began shortly before 8 a.m. with an explosion in the departure terminal at Brussels Airport, followed shortly by another. Then, at 9:11 a.m., a bomb tore through the last car of a subway train as it was pulling out of the Maelbeek station.
At least 30 people were killed: around 10 at the airport and 20 at the subway station — and more than 230 others were wounded.
Shortly after the attack, a video that purportedly captured one of those explosions began started circulating on Twitter, posted by the VRT deredactie.be news outlet. A version of the video was also circulated via YouTube:


This CCTV footage, however, was not taken during the Brussels attack on 21 March 2016. This video actually shows a bombing that occurred on 11 April 2011 and killed at least 15 people on the Minsk Metro in Belarus:

VRT deredactie.be apologized for posting footage from the 2011 Minsk bombing in conjunction with the Brussels attack:
At least one other video purportedly showing the moment an explosion was set off in Brussels was circulated online immediately after the attack:

This video was also taken from the 2011 Minsk Metro bombing:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Wikipedia
Published:22 March 2016
Updated:22 March 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

