Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Actor Andrew Lincoln's father was in a 1972 plane crash in the Andes mountain and survived by eating the other passengers.							See Example( s )

A meme claiming that Andrew Lincoln (a star of the zombie hit television show The Walking Dead) is the son of a survivor of the 1972 Andes flight disaster, and that the actor used his father’s experience with cannibalism as the inspiration for the character Rick Grimes, has been circulating on the internet for several years:
 
The above-displayed meme was originally posted to the “Interesting Facts” page of the IHatePeacocks2.com web site in August 2014. While this web page is full of “interesting” claims, none of them should be considered facts:
We here at the ihatepeacocks command center are commited to bringing you only the best in Soft Serve Technology and Preimium lulz at discount prices. And by discount we mean free.
We are nerds and we make bad jokes and funny pictures.
The “Interesting Facts” page is full of humorous but incorrect claims, such as Kim Jong-Un being roommates with the dark lord Cthulhu in college, but the web site’s intent can be summed up with one of its own memes:
 
Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571 crashed in the Andes Mountains in 13 October 1972. While sixteen passengers did ultimately survive the ordeal (and some did, famously, have to resort to cannibalism to do so) none of the survivors carried the name “Lincoln,” nor the actor’s family name (Clutterbuck).
While several profiles of the actor mention Lincoln’s father, a businessman, none mention any connection to the 1972 Andes flight disaster:
Born Andrew Clutterbuck (thank heavens for Equity and stage names) in Hull, he grew up in Bath, the younger son of a businessman and a psychiatric nurse.
A summer with the National Youth Theatre scuppered a vague idea of becoming a vet and, as the acting bug took hold, he dropped one of his A-levels and concentrated on auditions. His father told him he would only be allowed to go to drama school if he received offers from five or more. “That was my father,” shrugs Lincoln. “It was a very good thing, though because it really whittled out a burning desire in me.” Having obediently gained places at the top five schools, he enrolled at Rada, paying his way with jobs as a commis chef, a barman and in one of his father’s factories making car exhausts.
This meme (along with the rest of the memes from this particular site) is a joke and not at all based on factual information.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:I Hate Peacocks
Published:17 March 2016
Updated:17 March 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

