Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Wendy's employee admitted that was putting feces in the restaurant's chili.							See Example( s )

In March 2016, the entertainment web site Now8News published a fake news article claiming that a Wendy’s employee was putting feces in the restaurant’s chili, which immediately started circulating on social media:
A Wendy’s employee is now under arrest after he admitted to “pooping” in several hundred batches of chili since 2013. Brian Casper, 28, had been an “on time and reliable employee,” according to the manager and coworkers at the Mobile, Alabama location. The fact that this happened was a shock to everybody at the restaurant, including the several thousand customers who may have consumed Casper’s feces.
The above-displayed story was replicated on several other disreputable web sites, such as TMZ World News (no affiliation with TMZ.com) and FoxNews3 (no affiliation with FoxNews.com). While all three of these web sites specialize in fake news stories, only TMZ World News featured a disclaimer labeling its content as satire:
(TMZ World) is the most notorious entertainment website in the world with the most shocking Satire News to keep its visitors in a state of disbelief.
All three versions of the story also included a photo allegedly showing Wendy’s employee “Brian Casper.” This photo, however, is actually the mugshot of a Michigan man who was arrested in 2011 for a crime unrelated to feces (marijuana possession and furnishing alcohol to a minor) and briefly made headlines when he tucked his ears through his stretched lobes.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:11 March 2016
Updated:11 March 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

