Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Fairfax County schoolteacher informed a student's mother that her black child was singled out by other students as likely to be deported if Donald Trump were elected.							See Example( s )

On 6 March 2016, writer and Black Lives Matter activist Shaun King published a screen capture of a post by Facebook user Evelyn Momplaisir which decried an instance of purported racism in her child’s third-grade class:
// <![CDATA[
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// ]]&gt;
America. 2016. The mainstreaming of bigotry trickling down to children.
Posted by Shaun King on Sunday, March 6, 2016
The screenshot lacked a specific date, and King didn’t specify how he came to discover the claim. Momplaisir’s Facebook post wasn’t the first shared by a mother fearful of her child’s well-being — a similar story made the rounds in December 2015.
We spoke with representatives of Fairfax County Public Schools, who were unfamiliar with Momplaisir’s claim, but told us they would investigate the allegation.
We also contacted Momplaisir on Facebook to ask about the status update. As the reader e-mail indicated, the post was either deleted or its privacy settings changed to make it viewable to Facebook friends only by 7 March 2016, and King’s screenshot displayed a post that was at one point public. It’s possible that after King shared the post Momplaisir changed its settings to protect her privacy.

On 8 March 2016, Fairfax County Schools Public Information Officer John Torre emailed us the following statement:
FCPS is aware of a recent Facebook post made by a concerned parent regarding political statements made by elementary students within her child’s classroom. The teacher has spoken with the students, and communicated with parents of the class, regarding appropriate classroom decorum.  The concerned parent is satisfied by the response of the teacher and FCPS.  FCPS works to create an environment that is conducive to learning and where everyone is treated with respect.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
anecdata
donald trump
evelyn momplaisir
+2 more
fairfax county schools
shaun king


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:7 March 2016
Updated:7 March 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

