Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A number of media outlets incorrectly reported civil rights-era photos of Bernie Sanders were not legitimate.							See Example( s )

@samhwils @BernieSanders But that’s not Bernie Sanders in the photo. It is Bruce Rappaport.
In February 2016, Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders’ early civil rights activism became a matter of dispute following earlier rumors that Sanders was shown in an iconic 1965 photo at a march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama.
The emergence of contested photos led many to infer that all images purported to be of Sanders during the Civil Rights era were misattributed. Not long after that debate, the Washington Post‘s Jonathan Capehart wrote a piece (“Stop sending around this photo of ‘Bernie Sanders'”), which referenced an article in TIME (since updated):  
There was just one problem: Four University of Chicago alumni who went to school with Sanders tell TIME they believe that the dramatic photo of Sanders, which his campaign has featured on its website and in a promotional video, is not in fact a photograph of Sanders. An archivist at the University of Chicago agreed in January that Sanders was not the speaker in the photo, though the school’s official decision on the man’s identity is still pending. (Since this story was published, the photographer unearthed new evidence that the man in question is Sanders.)
  In his Washington Post piece, Capehart reiterated TIME‘s claim (later amended) that the images did not depict Bernie Sanders:  
The compelling picture can be found in the senator’s biographical video on his campaign website. “At the University of Chicago,” Sanders says as the photo fades in and out, “I got involved in the civil rights movement. We ended up engaging in a sit-in demonstration.” It’s on the campaign’s Tumblr feed. “As the Civil Rights Movement grew, Bernie led a sit-in to desegregate off-campus housing at the University of Chicago,” reads the timeline under 1962. And Sanders used it in a stirring 2013 video to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. “I remember the day very well and I remember the moment, the period well,” he says as the photo passes by, “because up at the University of Chicago, where I was then going to school, we were working with young people in the South.” But that’s not Bernie Sanders in the photo. It is Bruce Rappaport.
  On the same day that Capehart’s original piece was published, Rep. John Lewis commented separately on Sanders’ involvement with the Civil Rights movement. Lewis (who suffered injuries during the Selma march) told press he “never saw” Sanders during the course of his own activism:  
Democratic Rep. John Lewis on Thursday questioned the extent of Bernie Sanders’ participation in the civil rights movement after an event where the Congressional Black Caucus political action committee endorsed Hillary Clinton. Sanders has frequently talked up his history as an activist while he was at the University of Chicago in the 1960s and touted his work with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. But Lewis, a civil rights icon and leader of SNCC said he never saw Sanders at any events. “I never saw him. I never met him,” Lewis said. “I was chair of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee for three years, from 1963 to 1966. I was involved with the sit-ins, the Freedom Rides, the March on Washington, the march from Selma to Montgomery and directed (the) voter education project for six years. But I met Hillary Clinton. I met President (Bill) Clinton.”
  Supporters of Sanders were quick to respond with other photographic examples of the candidate engaged in activism during the Civil Rights era. One was an image of a young Sanders chained to a black woman during housing protests, and another depicted him vigorously resisting arrest:  
.@Salon I wonder if Bernie Sanders saw John Lewis at the Chicago housing protest. #artfulsmear for #HillaryClinton pic.twitter.com/GuegNBFSVd — berniehun (@JenD1974) February 29, 2016
