Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump told Phil Donahue that he was an atheist in 1989.							See Example( s )

In February 2016, a meme featuring a photo of Donald Trump along with a purported quote of his from a 1989 episode of The Phil Donahue Show started making the social media rounds. According to this particular meme, Trump told Donahue at the time that his “high IQ” made it “impossible” for him not to be an atheist:

We found no evidence that Trump uttered this phrase, and no evidence that he even appeared on The Phil Donahue Show in 1989. The media mogul was a guest on the show in 1987, but there is no record of him discussing his religious views (or, more accurately, his lack thereof) during that appearance.
This photo wasn’t taken during an episode of The Phil Donahue Show, either. It was taken during an appearance on the Oprah Winfrey show in 1988:

This is just one of the many fake quotes currently being falsely attributed to the Republican presidential candidate.  (Lest any other presidential candidates feel left out, there are plenty of fake quotes about them circulating around the internet as well.)
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:2 March 2016
Updated:2 March 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

