Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump planned to rename New Mexico in his first act as President.							See Example( s )

MUST read
Trump says he will "Rename New Mexico"....#OffTheDeepEnd#CruzCrew@2GodBglory1 #Election2016. #NoTrumphttps://t.co/Au5bVbnOO6
The dirt bag we call Donald Trump wants to "rename New Mexico". I cannot even explain how much he pissed me off. So ignorant.
On 22 February 2016, the web site FM News published an article reporting that should Donald Trump become President of the United States, his first priority would be renaming New Mexico:
The Republican frontrunner Donald Trump, has confessed to a room full of university students in Georgia, that his “very first act” as President will be renaming New Mexico. The revelation came during a Q&A at Valdosta State University, where Trump was campaigning.
Eyewitnesses say that around the midpoint of the forum, a first year psychology student began a question directed at Trump, by identifying herself as New Mexican. The U.S. presidential candidate immediately rolled his eyes and interrupted the young woman. “Oh we’re definitely changing that,” he said. “No please, continue. But when I get in there, New Mexico is gone.”
When asked to elaborate by the moderator, Trump opened up, revealing what his “first act” as President of the United States “will” be. “I mean come on, New Mexico? Are they really serious? My first day in office, I’m changing that name so fast, it’ll blow their sombreros straight off.”
The 19 year old student looked stunned, and asked why Trump would want to rename her home state. “Listen sweetie, I’m here to make America great again, not Mexico. Alright?” the billionaire responded sarcastically. “They’ve got a real problem in that state with illegals, drugs and crime, and don’t even get me started on the rapists.”
The image at the top of the article depicted Trump announcing his bid to run for president in June 2015, and wasn’t taken during an appearance at Valdosta State University in 2016. A rally for Trump was planned for that venue, but not until 29 February 2016.
The name FM News was generic enough to be mistaken for a legitimate news outlet by some readers, but the domain (failmuch.com) hinted at the web site’s purpose. On an “About” page, FM News stated it was one of many fake news pages:
Fail Much News was founded in 2015 and is a satire, parody and spoof news site. All articles are fictitious and occasionally intended to be humourous. Please feel free to copy and paste this into your comments to prove this site is “bullshit”.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
failmuch.com
fm news
+1 more
new mexico


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:29 February 2016
Updated:29 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

