Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Carl Sagan said "if it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth."							See Example( s )

"If it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth." - Carl Sagan pic.twitter.com/4nhOfGPNl6
Though scientist Carl Sagan died in 1996, his work remained highly influential. One quote in particular attributed to Sagan regularly showed up on share-centric social media sites:
If it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth.
So popular was the phrase that it appeared as a print available for purchase, but the quote wasn’t credited to Sagan earlier in any format we located, and we were unable to find versions of it published before mid-2013:
// <![CDATA[
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&#038;version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// ]]&gt;
Carl Sagan said so many good things in his life… but this simple statement is one of the best!
Posted by Atheism Resource on Friday, June 28, 2013
“If it can be destroyed by the truth, it deserves to be destroyed by the truth.” – Carl Sagan
— AsapSCIENCE (@AsapSCIENCE) June 9, 2014

A frequently cited source for the attribution was the social literature site GoodReads, but we couldn’t find the quote in any of his books. Another prominent placement of the phrase involved Sagan’s Wikiquote page, under the “misattributed” section, which observed that the quote was built on a similar phrase in fantasy author P.C. Hodgell’s novel Seeker’s Mask:
That which can be destroyed by the truth, should be.
 
Hodgell commented on a Reddit page in February 2016, confirming that the quote appeared in her novel, but that she didn’t get it from Sagan:
Hodgell here. “That which can be destroyed by the truth should be” appears in my 1994 novel Seeker’s Mask. I first heard of the Sagan quote in 2013, more or less. No source that I’ve seen dates the latter. If it’s not a case of misattribution, it’s probably a matter of “great minds” etc.
As Hodgell indicated, the quote didn’t appear to exist in the Sagan-attributed form until mid-2013. (Hodgell’s novel appeared in 1994.) The likeliest trajectory is one of the most common for misattributed quotes: the phrase was dormant for nearly two decades, and then reached socially viral status only when a slightly rewritten version was incorrectly attached to a beloved science celebrity.
However, Sagan really did write the following on the topic of truth:
One of the saddest lessons of history is this: If we’ve been bamboozled long enough, we tend to reject any evidence of the bamboozle. We’re no longer interested in finding out the truth. The bamboozle has captured us. It’s simply too painful to acknowledge, even to ourselves, that we’ve been taken. Once you give a charlatan power over you, you almost never get it back.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
carl sagan
incorrect memes
p.c. hodgell
+1 more
quotes


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Flickr
Published:23 February 2016
Updated:23 February 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

