Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Ted Cruz will replace the Constitution with the Bible if he's elected President.							See Example( s )

On 18 February 2016, the entertainment web site Free Wood Post published a fake news article claiming that Ted Cruz had vowed to replace the Constitution with the Bible if elected President:
At a campaign event in South Carolina on Thursday, Cruz started shouting like a megachurch preacher on Sunday the day after gay marriage became law of the land. He was loud, he was verbose, and he meant business. The junior senator even went so far as to say what he would do to our existing Constitution if he were to win the White House.
“I’m sure you’ve heard the pundits say that we’re not a Christian nation. Oh, they’re mistaken, my friends. They are severely misguided. Our nation is a Christian nation and when I’m president I’ll make sure of it, because the Bible will be the Constitution. I know what the First Amendment says, and I DON’T CARE! We’ve strayed from Christian principles so far that now we have black presidents and homosexual marriages happening in every state of our dear union. It’s deplorable. It’s unAmerican. However, we can change all that, and it’s as simple as voting for me. Will you please do that, folks. Will you please vote for me. It’s what George Washington would want. In fact, it’s what Jesus would want.”
While Ted Cruz frequently talks about his faith — a section of his campaign web site is dedicated to “religious liberty” — the Republican presidential candidate never said that he would replace the Constitution with the Bible.
The above-displayed quote originated on the Free Wood Post, an entertainment web site that does not publish factual news stories:
Free Wood Post is a news and political satire web publication, which may or may not use real names, often in semi-real or mostly fictitious ways. All news articles contained within FreeWoodPost.com are fiction, and presumably fake news.
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:19 February 2016
Updated:19 February 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

