Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			'Mob Wives' personality Big Ang died of cancer.							See Example( s )

 
Update: Angela Raiola’s family has confirmed her death as of 3:01am on 18 February 2016:
This is @vinniemedugno on behalf of the family of Angela Raiola, please see below: pic.twitter.com/wiuPApr9Lw
— Angela Raiola (@biggangVH1) February 18, 2016
On 17 February 2016, multiple outlets reported that Mob Wives personality “Big Ang” (Angela Raiola) died of cancer at a Manhattan hospital: 
Big Ang, ‘Mob Wives’ reality star, has reportedly died at the age of 55: https://t.co/xF0UwhFoBX pic.twitter.com/fSx97jqRYy — Fuse TV (@fusetv) February 18, 2016
Initial reports, however, were conflicting (despite some big names in entertainment news having carried the story):
Entertainment Tonight reporting Big Ang died, but my sources say she’s still alive. So gross to jump the gun for pvs pic.twitter.com/CfHjUnh8rF — Mark Graham (@unclegrambo) February 18, 2016
ETOnline originally reported: 
Angela Raiola, known as “Big Ang” on the TV show Mob Wives, died at age 55 in the hospital on Wednesday after a battle with stage 4 cancer, a family source confirmed to ET. In December, ET confirmed that Raiola’s throat cancer had returned. Several months earlier, in March, a lemon-size tumor was previously discovered and removed from her throat in March 2015. Later, in June, she underwent the same procedure for the right side of her throat as well.
Later on 17 February 2016, that web site walked back the report, updating with the following statement: 
UPDATE: Though a source close to the family confirmed Angela Raiola’s death to ET on Wednesday night, Mob Wives creator and Raiola’s sister Jenn Graziano now says, “At this time that is a false rumor. I am here with the entire family and all her friends and they ask for your continued support and prayers. We will keep everyone updated.”
A tweet published late on 17 February 2016 by the account @BigAngOfficial denied the claim: 
pic.twitter.com/L8CZyCWTdJ — Angela Raiola (@BigAngOfficial) February 18, 2016
The account also retweeted two tweets lambasting ET for their premature report:
Let’s get cable to drop @etnow! TWEET #FIREET & #SUEET NOW! EVERY TWEET IS A PRAYER AND SUPPORT FOR BIG ANG! #FIREET #SUEET — Mob Wives (@MobWivesLS) February 18, 2016

CONFIRMED: @etnow is the source who spread the rumor about Big Ang! #SueET #FireET — Mob Wives (@MobWivesLS) February 18, 2016

Aside from the tweet, representatives for Raiola provided no further information about Big Ang’s condition, other than confirming she remained hospitalized in Manhattan and was “fighting.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
angela raiola
big ang
mob wives
+2 more
Radio & TV
Television


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:17 February 2016
Updated:17 February 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

