Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush, and George Wallace together at a table.							See Example( s )

On 16 February 2016, a photograph purportedly showing Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush, and George Wallace at a table was posted to a Facebook group along with the caption “Planning for ‘The New World Order'”:

The above-displayed meme was shared to a page called: “Our NEXT President Bernie” in an apparent attempt to either show that American politics consists of a relatively small group of co-conspirators, to discredit Bush and Clinton by linking them to former Alabama governor George Wallace (who was well-known for being a segregationist in the 1960s), or both.
Although it’s difficult to tell the motivation for sharing the above-displayed photograph with this particular caption, it is real. CBS News, which included the photograph in a gallery of images from Wallace’s political career, reported that the photograph was taken in 1983, at Bush’s residence in Kennebunkport, Maine.
At the time, Bush was serving as vice president under Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton was the governor of Arkansas, and George Wallace was at the beginning of his final term as governor of Alabama:
Wallace and his third wife, the former Lisa Taylor, meet with Vice President George Bush and Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton at a lobster bake at Bush’s residence at Kennebunkport, Maine, July 30, 1983. The third Mrs. Wallace, whom the governor married in 1981, was 30 years his junior and half of a country-western singing duo, Mona and Lisa, who had performed during his campaign in 1968.
  It’s true that this photo is of the three politicians sitting together, and while it’s impossible to tell what they’re discussing in the photo, it clearly shows a common occurrence: politicians hobnobbing and shaking hands.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:16 February 2016
Updated:16 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

