Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith have purchased the BET channel.							See Example( s )

On 29 January 2016, the web site NahaDaily published an article reporting that Will and Jada Pinkett Smith had purchased the television channel BET:
Will and Jada purchased B.E.T. along with the help of an investment group Thursday afternoon for $600 million in cash.
“What we’re going to do is cancel everything on B.E.T. and replace it with things that black people actually like. It’s not rocket science.” -Will.
NahaDaily is a fake news web site that does not publish any factual articles. A disclaimer on the bottom of the web site states: “NegrosAgainstHairlineAbuse is Satire. Humor. Not Real. :-)”
In addition to the dubious source for this story, BET has not made any recent announcements about a change of ownership. The channel was started by Robert L. Johnson in 1980, and is owned and operated by Black Entertainment Television, LLC (a subsidiary of Viacom).
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
BET
jada smith
naha daily
+1 more
will smith


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:15 February 2016
Updated:15 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

