Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Beyonce has not been banned from performing in Canada based on her 2016 Super Bowl halftime performance.							See Example( s )

'Ol Thunder thighs needs to be banned for Good'
Canada Does What NOBODY Will After Seeing Beyoncé’s Racist Show, https://t.co/BgRBScyanH
On 14 February 2016, the disreputable web site American News published an article reporting that popular singer Beyonce had been banned from performing in Canada due to her supposed use of her February 2016 Super Bowl halftime appearance “as a platform to focus on black power”:
 
The article was misleadingly tagged with the clickbait headline “Canada Does Not Allow Beyonce to Perform in Their Country,” as, the page’s content didn’t match the claims of its title.  The text simply reported that a single Canadian official had suggested banning Beyonce from performing in that country might be a possible course of action:
As you’ve likely seen and heard by now, the star used her performance as a platform to focus on black power, including references to the Black Panthers and Malcolm X. Concerned citizens were immediately furious with the references, accusing Beyonce for “perpetuating racial tension” by celebrating those who encouraged racial violence.
Now, it’s becoming abundantly clear that other countries were as put off by the performance as the United States was. One Toronto official has even suggested that Canada prevent Beyonce from performing in the country if she truly does support the New Black Panthers.
A 13 February 2016 article by America’s Freedom Fighters also appeared under a clickbait headline stating that “Canada Does What NOBODY Will After Seeing Beyonce’s Racist Show,” but that article also walked the claim back in its text. 
Both misleading articles linked to an 8 February 2016 Toronto Sun item whose thirteenth paragraph referenced Canadian reactions to the performance. and noted that Beyonce had upcoming shows scheduled in Canada:
But Beyonce has announced her Formation World Tour is coming to the Rogers Centre in Toronto May 25 and to Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton on May 20.
Not so fast, says Toronto Councillor Jim Karygiannis.
“Perhaps Immigration Minister John McCallum should have her investigated first?” wondered the Ward 39 councillor and former federal MP. “If someone wore bullets and supported (a radical group) here, they would not be welcomed in the United States — that’s for sure.”
He said he wouldn’t ban Beyonce based on this performance but if a probe found she or her dancers financially support the New Black Panthers, “she or some of them could be found not eligible to enter the country as others in the past have faced.”
Karygiannis called the whole approach “disturbing” at a time when “we should not be promoting gun culture or anti-police sentiments.”
As that brief portion of the article relayed, a single Toronto councilman merely suggested that if Beyonce or any of her troupe were proved to have provided financial support to any radical groups, they might be denied entry to Canada on that basis.  That’s a far cry from the stated claim that Canada has already “banned” Beyonce from performing there based on nothing more than the tenor of her brief Super Bowl appearance.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
america's freedom fighters
american news
beyonce
+3 more
black panthers
canada
music


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:14 February 2016
Updated:14 February 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

