Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Trump signed an executive order naming himself winner of the popular vote.					
On 26 January 2017, the satirical web site PoliticalGarbageChute.com posted a story playing off a spate of executive orders signed by newly-inaugurated President Donald Trump (with the headline: “President Trump Signs Executive Order Declaring Himself Winner Of 2016 Popular Vote”). The story reads:
President Donald J. Trump, alleged-billionaire and former reality-TV star, signed an order today that stated “despite what so-called facts and easily observable reality dictates, President Trump was the clear winner of the popular vote in the 2016 election.” The order stipulates that “even if the actual facts don’t show this to be true, alternative facts most certainly will.” The order also says “Trump deserves the popular vote win anyway, so no one should get all that mad, really.”
“Look, many people have told me that they think I’m spending way too much time thinking about this whole popular vote thing,” Trump said as he signed the order, “and so my thought process on this Executive Order — and by the way I do the best Executive Orders don’t I? Anyway, the thinking behind this one was that if I just end all the hubbub and debate over who won the popular vote, then we can get on with the business of rounding up Mexicans and banning Muslims, know what I mean?”
The post is purely satire, meant to play on President Trump’s days-long fixation over the crowd size at his 20 January 2017 inauguration and promise to investigate voter fraud in the election that he won by electoral college. (Trump’s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, won the popular vote by nearly 3 million ballots.)
The story also plays on the fact that Trump did sign a travel ban that resulted in visa and green card holders from seven predominantly-Muslim countries being stopped and deported at airports, and that he has vowed to build a new wall at the U.S.-Mexico border. But the site, which describes itself as “laughing AT politicians not WITH them” also posted articles with headlines like, “Mike Pence Bounds Into The Vice-President’s Office With Manifest Of Vaginae To Register And Regulate” and “Report: Trump To Officially Declare February ‘All Months Matter’ Month,” which are clearly satire.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
donald trump
political garbage chute
politicalgarbagechute.com
+2 more
satire
voter fraud


Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Christopher Halloran / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:2 February 2017
Schlarmann, James. “President Trump Signs Executive Order Declaring Himself Winner Of 2016 Popular Vote.”
The Political Garbage Chute. 26 January 2017.
Shear, Michael, and Peter Baker. “After His Claim of Voter Fraud, Trump Vows ‘Major Investigation’.”
The New York Times. 25 January 2017.
Fox News. “List of Trump’s Executive Orders.”
  3 February 2017.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

