Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Backers of Bernie Sanders have obtained Nazi SS "lightning bolt" tattoos to show support for the Democratic presidential candidate.					
In February 2016, an image began circulating via social media proclaiming that young supporters of Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders were demonstrating their commitment to this campaign by obtaining tattoos of the “lightning bolt” (Armanen runes) ‘SS’ insignia utilized by the notorious Nazi Schutzstaffel paramilitary surveillance and terror group:
Dozens of Sanders’ supporters have so far obtained tattoos representing the candidate, primarily through a promotion offered by a tattoo parlor in Sanders’ home state of Vermont. But these tattoos do not replicate the SS “lightning bolts” now favored by white supremacist and neo-Nazi groups.
The actual free tattoos offered to Sanders’ supporters by Aartistic Inc. Tattoo in Montpelier replicate an outlined image that represents the candidate’s “iconic unkempt hairdo and thick black-rimmed glasses”:
It’s unclear whether this item was intended as a mere joke (and a rather offensively crude one at that, given that Sanders is Jewish) or whether it was intended as a pointed political commentary (i.e., “Sanders fans are young people too dumb and naive to even recognize the Nazi SS symbol”), but the Schutzstaffel insignia is not one that has legitimately been associated with the Sanders campaign or his supporters.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:11 February 2016
Updated:11 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

