Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump's recently-deceased cousin implored the public in his obituary not to vote for the GOP presidential contender.					
An image purportedly showing the obituary of one Thomas P. Trump, who was supposedly the cousin of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, began circulating online in February 2016. The obituary included message allegedly penned by Thomas before his death, imploring citizens of the United States not to vote his “walking mucus bag” of a cousin into office:
This image was first posted to the web site Imgur on 3 February 2016, from which the Facebook group “The People’s Efforts” picked it up the following day and shared it as if it were a real news item.
This obituary, however, is a fake.
The Obituary.com web site shows no record of a man named Thomas P. Trump’s having passing away in January 2016. While there is a record for a Thomas W. Trump, that man was not Donald Trump’s cousin, nor was he the man pictured in the obituary shown above. In fact, the photograph used in this fake obit is a cropped version of a picture of a man in Santa Barbara that was posted to Flickr in 2006:
I met this man today at the base of a very long stairway. we exchange “happy easter’s”. when i came back from a thirty minute walk, he had managed to go up three of the seven flights of stairs. he seemed very happy to be alive. he was joyful and hard of hearing. he quite happily insisted that i take his photo :-)
so i did.
The man featured in the above-displayed picture is John Pat Cooper, not Donald Trump’s fictional cousin Thomas P. Trump.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:5 February 2016
Updated:5 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

