Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Ted Cruz said that he was a Christian first and an American second.					
In February 2016, a rumor started circulating online that Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz had said that he was a “Christian first” and an “American second.” While these words were a genuine quote from the Texas Senator, they were typically presented in a manner that lacked context.
The quote first appeared in a 20 January 2016 article by Politico about a campaign stop Cruz made in New Hampshire. Cruz was asked to respond to comments that former Kansas senator Robert Dole had made to the New York Times in a recent interview questioning Cruz’s loyalty to the GOP, and he responded by saying that his allegiance to the United States and to conservative principles trumped his party membership (and that his commitment to his religion ranked higher than them all): 
“It is exactly right that in terms of who I am, I am a Christian first. I am an American second. I’m a conservative third. And I’m a Republican fourth. And I’ll tell ya, there are a lot of Americans who feel the same way.”
We’ve found no video that captured this remark from Cruz, but the quote was also documented by the Washington Post.
Cruz has made no secret of his plans to court conservative Christians during his presidential campaign.  He announced his run in March 2015 at Christian college Liberty University, saying he hopes to fight the federal government’s “assault” on religious liberty, and he also pledged to “defend the sanctity of life” and “uphold the sacrament of marriage.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:4 February 2016
Updated:4 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

