Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Obama has ordered the phrase "under God" to be removed from the Pledge of Allegiance.					
On 31 January 2016, the web site TD Alliance published an article reporting that President Obama had ordered the phrase “under god” to be removed from the Pledge of Allegiance and banned from use in all government buildings:
In a flurry of executive orders signed by President Obama this week, one order will edit the Pledge of Allegiance to remove the phrase ‘Under God’.
For several years, Atheist and Muslim activists have put pressure on the White House for the move citing religious freedom regulations.
“The separation of church and state outlined in the First Amendment to the United States Constitution is an important founding principle of our nation. Our nation’s Bill of Rights guarantees not only that the government cannot establish an official religion, but also guarantees citizens’ rights to practice the religion of their choosing or no religion at all.” White House spokesman Josh Earnest told Fox News
There is no truth to this report, however. It originated with TD Alliance, a web site associated with the spoof Fox News Facebook page called “Fox News The FB Page.” Although both TD Alliance and “Fox News The FB Page” are misleadingly designed to appear as if they were associated with the Fox News channel, they have no affiliation with that latter entity.  One giveaway is that “Fox News The FB Page” only has a few hundred likes, while the real Fox News channel FAcebook page has garnered millions of likes.
Also, a list of President Obama’s executive orders is readily available on the White House web site, and those records do not show the president signing a “flurry of executive orders” at the end of January 2016, nor issuing any executive order to remove the phrase “under God” from the Pledge of Allegiance or ban its use in government facilities.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:4 February 2016
Updated:4 February 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

