Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump paid Sarah Palin $10 million for her endorsement.					
On 20 January 2016, the entertainment web site Satira Tribune published an article reporting that 2016 Republican president contender Donald Trump had paid former Alaska governor (and 2008 vice presidential nominee) Sarah Palin $10 million for her endorsement of his candidacy:
With millions of dollars saved by free media coverage, it allows Donald Trump to spend money differently than a traditional politician. He recently paid Sarah Palin $10 million for her endorsement to help gain Evangelical support.
The strategy behind the deal was to help court the Evangelical vote away from Ted Cruz in Iowa. Strategist Dale Roberts told the Des Moines Register, “This was a smart move, cheaper than buying TV ads, and most likely more effective. When going after the uneducated, you always bring in one of their own, someone they can relate to.”
This report was nothing more than fiction, however. The Satira Tribune describes itself as “Satirical News for Satirical Folk” (i.e., a fake news outlet) and does not publish factual stories:
The former Governor of Alaska did endorse Trump for President on 20 January 2016, but it was an endorsement that she appears to have offered without compensation.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:1 February 2016
Updated:1 February 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

