Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			In 2016, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said: "One of my proudest moments was when I told Obama, 'You will not fill this Supreme Court vacancy,'" and in 2017, he said, "Apparently there's yet a new standard now, which is not to confirm a Supreme Court nominee at all. I think that's something the American people simply will not tolerate."					
There is a time-honored procedure for appointing and confirming U.S. Supreme Court justices, who hold the job for life (“during good Behaviour,” the Constitution specifies) and can only be replaced if they die, choose to step down, or are impeached and removed from office. The president is tasked by the Constitution with nominating and appointing new justices “by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,” which means that in the event of a vacancy the president considers potential nominees, names one, then the Senate holds a hearing and votes to confirm or reject that nominee.
Over the past several decades — most historians date the trend beginning in 1987, when the Democratically-controlled Senate rejected Ronald Reagan’s nomination of conservative U.S. Circuit Court judge Robert Bork — the appointment of Supreme Court justices has become increasingly politicized, with both the executive and legislative branches attempting to subject nominees to ideological litmus tests over and above their professional qualifications.
In March 2016, following the death of Associate Justice Antonin Scalia, a Reagan appointee and one of the more conservative voices on the court, President Obama nominated federal appellate judge Merrick Garland, who was described as “centrist” by the mainstream media and “left-leaning” by those on the right, to fill the vacancy. He did this despite the fact that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky had already announced — on the day Scalia died — that the Republican-controlled Senate had no intention of confirming any nominee chosen by Obama:
