Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a lake that resembles a Teletubby character.							See Example( s )

In January 2016, an old photograph purportedly showing “Teletubby Lake,” a body of water whose shape resembles one of the characters from the Teletubbies British pre-school children’s television series, began circulating online.
The photograph in question does not show a real lake, however. It was created for a February 2003 Photoshop contest hosted by the web site Worth1000 in which entrants were tasked with creating images representing “When God is feeling artistic”:
Great Lake Teletubby: God can be cruel sometimes. God can be very, very cruel.
The manufactured “Lake Teletubby” photograph was based on a real satellite image of Mt. Pinatubo in the Philippines:


This image captured by a satellite on March 6, 2001 shows Mt. Pinatubo in the Phillippines. The volcano is located 90 kilometers north of manila. Once standing 1,780 meters (5,840 feet), Mount Pinatubo was dormant for 600 years until 1991 when it erupted twice in June of that year.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:29 January 2016
Updated:29 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

