Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hooters Restaurants are offering a special deal to customers who bring in photographs of their exes on Valentine's Day.							See Example( s )

In January 2016, an image purportedly showing an advertisement for the Hooters restaurant chain that promised a special deal for patrons who bring in pictures of their former partners on Valentine’s Day began getting passed via social media:
The post gathered thousands of shares before Hooters finally chimed in to confirm that the promotion was real:
The restaurant has also been responding to doubtful customers on social media:
Although many consumers were skeptical about the “Shred Your Ex” promotion, this isn’t the first time that Hooters has invited customers to shred photos of their exes in exchange for wings on Valentine’s Day.  According to Eater, the restaurant chain has been running similar promotions since at least 2011.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:29 January 2016
Updated:29 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

