Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A series of photographs shows  frozen waves off the coast of Nantucket.							See Example( s )

In January 2016, a series of photographs purportedly showing “frozen waves” off the coast of Nantucket started circulating via social media:
A photo posted by Jonathan Nimerfroh (@jdnphotography) on Dec 4, 2015 at 12:46pm PST

These remarkable pictures were captured by photographer Jonathan Nimerfroh in February 2015. The images of frozen waves are quite real, although the waves they picture aren’t completely frozen:
Jonathan Nimerfroh, a photographer, arrived on the [Nantucket] beach and saw an unusual sight: slow-moving waves of slush.
“I just noticed a really bizarre horizon,” said Mr. Nimerfroh, who is also a surfer. “The snow was up to my knees, getting to the water. I saw these crazy half-frozen waves. Usually on a summer day you can hear the waves crashing, but it was absolutely silent. It was like I had earplugs in my ears.”
It is not uncommon for the harbor to freeze, but even a fisherman he spoke with later said he had never seen anything quite like it.
Normally, water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit. But salt in the ocean lowers the freezing temperature — basically by getting in the way of the water molecules — to about 28.4 degrees.
The movement of the waves seems to have broken up ice crystals before they could grow into a sheet covering that shallow stretch of the Atlantic Ocean. The result was an ocean with the consistency of a 7-Eleven Slurpee.
Nimerfroh offered this description of his “slurpee wave” photographs to Shutterbug:
They were perfect dreamy slush waves. Most waves were around two feet with some larger sets slushing thru around three foot or waist high.
Nimerfroh said that he returned to the beach the following day hoping to see the same slush waves, but by then the water had frozen into an ice sheet and “nothing was moving … There were no waves anymore.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:JDN Photography
Published:28 January 2016
Updated:28 January 2016
Chang, Kenneth and Cornelia Dean.   “On Nantucket, Surf’s Up, If You’re Part Penguin.”
    The New York Times.   27 February 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

