Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Sheriff Joe Arpaio has been named as Donald Trump's running mate.					
On 27 January 2016, the web site News Examiner (and its shill sites at nbc.com.co and abcnews.com.co) published an article reporting that GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump had named notorious Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio as his running mate for the 2016 election:
On Tuesday, Sheriff Joe Arpaio officially endorsed Donald Trump for president. Early this morning, Trump shocked the country by announcing Arpaio as his pick for Vice Presidential running mate in 2016.
“I have great respect for Joe Arpaio,” Trump told reporters. “Like me, he understands that we must restore law and order to the border and respect the men and women of our police forces. I thank him for his support of my policies and candidacy for President. He too knows that we can make America great again, and because of this, I am proud to announce Joe Arpaio as my Vice Presidential running mate. And just moments ago, I’m happy to report that Arpaio has accepted my offer. So it’s now official; you will see a Trump-Arpaio ticket come this November.”
There is no truth to this report, and its source, the News Examiner, is a well-known fake news web site that publishes fabricated, clickbait articles.
Many readers are probably familiar with the fake news nature of the News Examiner site, but some readers were duped into mistaking this item for genuine news because it was also published to News Examiner‘s shill  sites at nbc.com.co and abcnews.com.co, which spoof the domain names of legitimate news organizations.
While Donald Trump has not named Arpaio (or anyone else) his running mate, the Arizona sheriff did recently endorse Trump as his personal presidential choice:
“Everything I believe in he’s doing and he’s going to do it when he becomes president,” Arpaio told reporters shortly after addressing hundreds of Trump supporters waiting in a high school gymnasium here. “I met Donald six months ago in Phoenix, introduced him then, 30 days back in Phoenix, introduced him then. It is my privilege and honor to help him, to endorse him today for president of the United States.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:27 January 2016
Updated:27 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

