Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows Abraham posing with author Edgar Allan Poe.					
Photographs of two towering figures from different fields of endeavor are always popular, with their intrigue factor being directly proportional to their age.  The image seen here is particularly compelling for capturing not only two intellectual giants of the 19th century, but for dating from the early ages of photograph itself.  Seen here are author Edgar Allan Poe, best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, and Abraham Lincoln, future President of the United States.
Unfortunately, this photograph can’t be real — although the two men were contemporaries and Lincoln was aware of Poe’s work, they never met in real life.  And even if they had, this couldn’t be a picture of that event: Poe died in 1849, and the single extant photograph of Abraham Lincoln taken prior to Poe’s passing is a Daguerreotype from 1846 showing Lincoln posing alone:
This picture is simply a cut-and-paste job using a vintage photograph, with the heads of the two famous men grafted onto the bodies. (The face of Lincoln used here is from a photograph taken of him in 1858, long after Poe was dead.)  The fake photograph of the pair appears in the 2010 book Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter, a horror mash-up novel that presents Lincoln as a friend of Poe’s and “one of the gifted vampire hunters of his day.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:21 January 2016
Updated:21 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

