Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			'Scarface' is being remade with Leonardo DiCaprio cast as Tony Montana.							See Example( s )

Got mad love for Leonardo Di Caprio Mara Scarface must be left alone... Remake, why?!
In early January 2016, a 25 August 2015 The Portly Gazelle article titled “Scarface Remake Starring Leonardo DiCaprio Announced For 2016” began recirculating on social media; it claimed:
Universal Studios, one of the biggest players in Hollywood made a huge announcement this morning that will no doubt drive film fans into a frenzy – 32 years after it’s release,  the legendary crime-drama Scarface is getting a remake – and what’s more, the flick is starring none other than Leonardo DiCaprio himself.
In the press release, Universal Studios revealed that they had been planning a remake since 2002, but that they had not been able to find anyone who they thought could live up to Al Pacino’s august performance in the original.
However, no such press release was issued in August 2015, or in the intervening months. A disclaimer at the bottom of every The Portly Gazelle page explained:
Disclaimer: All stories on this site are satire and the opinions expressed do not belong to any real people. If persons appear in the picture they have nothing to do with the story.
While The Portly Gazelle isn’t one of the better-known fake news sites, the site similarly took in social media users with claims of a Forrest Gump remake in September 2015. Around the same time, Facebook and Twitter users inadvertently got their hopes up for a Hocus Pocus 2 based on a then-circulating fake movie poster.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
leonardo dicaprio
portly gazelle
remake fakes
+1 more
scarface


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:15 January 2016
Updated:15 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

