Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A man known as "the booty tickler" was arrested in Texas.							See Example( s )

In December 2015, the entertainment web site Not Allowed To published a preposterous fake news article claiming that a man known as “the booty tickler” has been arrested in Texas:
The infamous booty tickler who was breaking into homes in Dallas and tickling peoples buttholes while they were sleeping has finally been captured.
The so called booty tickler hit several homes and targeted at least a dozen people before being arrested.
The above-quoted story is a complete work of fiction. Not Allowed To is an entertainment publication that does not publish factual stories:
Notallowedto.com is intented for entertainment purposes only. Our website and social media content uses the most notorious urban and satirical entertainment news with the most shocking headlines and articles.
In addition to the web site’s disclaimer, news of the alleged “booty tickler’s” arrest has not been covered by any credible publications, and the mugshot attached to the story originated from an unrelated crime that occurred in Oklahoma in 2010.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
arrest
booty tickler
fake news
+1 more
notallowedto


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:11 January 2016
Updated:11 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

