Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A browser extension can eliminate all mention of Donald Trump from a user's online experience.							See Example( s )

In late 2015, as Donald Trump’s presidential run began reaching a fever pitch, a few enterprising programmers created apps, pages, or browser extensions for people who wanted to minimize their exposure to Trump, his fans, or both.
One such browser extension is called “Trump Filter.”  It was created by Rob Spectre, a self-described “Internet Mathemagician,” who created the software with three settings (“Mild,” “Aggressive,” and “Vindictive”) which the user could adjust based on how strong his or her dislike of Trump might be.
“I picked Trump for this extension in order to improve the signal-to-noise ratio in the media coverage around this election,” Spectre told us.
Even at this early stage with this wide field of candidates in the American presidential campaign, there is some research that suggests Trump is dominating 46% of all the headlines devoted to the election.
Even finding other ideas behind the ridiculous notion of banning 1.6 billion people from entering the United States can be difficult to do on the Internet right now. I needed a way to turn the reality TV candidacy off — that’s what I hope the Trump Filter does.
For the rest of the field, that’s really up to the developer community. I did publish the source code with a permissive license on Github — it is free for anyone to modify. It looks like a few developers are using it to create their own filters for other presidential candidates, some other politicians in other countries and, importantly the entire Kardashian family.
In the interest of science, we installed the extension, set it to “Mild,” and tried it out on a recent article about Donald Trump:

The filter worked exactly as advertised:

Spectre created a similar filter in 2011 to remove mentions of Derek Jeter from the user’s internet.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
browser
donald trump
filter
+1 more
politics


Fact Checker:
Brooke Binkowski

Featured Image:DonaldJTrump.com
Published:6 January 2016
Updated:6 January 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

