Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Ammon Bundy posted a message on Twitter comparing himself to Rosa Parks.							See Example( s )

On 5 January 2016, a Twitter account purportedly belonging to Ammon Bundy, a Phoenix resident who led a group of armed men in the takeover of a government building at Oregon’s Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, posted a message comparing his actions to those of civil rights leader Rosa Parks:

While the above-displayed message was posted by the Twitter account @Ammon_Bundy, it doesn’t appear that the rancher has anything to do with the account.
First, this is a brand new Twitter account which was started on 3 January 2016. While it is possible that Bundy would start a new Twitter account to take advantage of the media attention, the rancher has had a Facebook account for more than a year and frequently uses the social network to provide updates from Oregon.
Second, the @Ammon_Bundy Twitter account uses a screenshot from one of Bundy’s videos as its profile pic. If the account were real, it’s likely that Bundy would have used an actual photo.
Finally, MSNBC reporter Tony Dokoupil, who has been reporting from the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge since shortly after Bundy’s men took over the building, confirmed that the account was fake:
  
While it’s possible that someone associated with the Bundy is operating the @Ammon_Bundy Twitter account, it’s more likely that the account is being operated by a remote sympathizer.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ammon bundy
bundy
oregon
+2 more
rosa parks
twitter


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:6 January 2016
Updated:6 January 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

