Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Trump replaced a White House portrait of George Washington with a painting of Vigo the Carpathian.							See Example( s )

In late January 2017, the web site ImmediateSafety.org published an article appearing to report that President Donald Trump replaced an Oval Office portrait of George Washington with one of fictional “Ghostbusters II” antagonist Vigo the Carpathian:
Redecoration of the Oval Office is a tradition. Some presidents change the order of the artwork, the furniture, the paint, the wallpaper. Some even replace everything … The most notable change is the addition of a mantle-to-ceiling portrait of Vigo the Carpathian in place of a portrait of George Washington over the fireplace. Who is Vigo the Carpathian, you ask?
Vigo the Carpathian (originally known as Vigo Von Homburg Deutschendorf) is an ancient 16th Century medieval tyrant and sorcerer, who later died in the 17th century. He was a despotic ruler who didn’t do his subjects any favors. He was also known as the “Scourge of Carpathia,” the “Sorrow of Moldavia” and a host of other unflattering names like “Vigo the Cruel,” “Vigo the Torturer,” “Vigo the Despised,” and “Vigo the Unholy.” He died at the ripe old age of 105 but not of old age. He was lynched by his subjects because of his role in the better part of a century’s maltreatment.
Asked about the painting, the Trump camp simply stated that it brought the leader of the free world a ‘measure of calm.’ We must admit that it is a rather striking and imposing painting but if it helps him work, so be it. One member of the White House press corps mentioned seeing the President talking to the painting, but presidential spokespeople dismissed that as fanciful nonsense.
Although the claim is straightforward satire based on the events of “Ghostbusters II,” the site on which the claim appears is not a well-known purveyor of fake news. The film referenced in the article is decades old (and was relatively obscure, at least compared to its predecessor), allowing the joke to sail over the heads of younger readers.
ImmediateSafety.org does not prominently display disclaimers identifying it as a satirical web site, but a separate page contained the following remark: 
Satire is protected speech, especially since you’d have to be some kind of moron to read anything you saw here and think it was serious (except for the things that are serious). If you do sue us, we’ll counter sue for pain and suffering, and that is some real trouble for you. Best if you learn to take a joke and move on with life not being offended by everything.
In addition to this claim, the site boasts headlines such as “Bernie Sanders to Use Nickname ‘Mango’ in an Effort to Win the Phish Vote,” “Confirmed: Hillary Clinton Murdered a Baby With a Hammer,” and “DNC to Hand Debbie Wasserman Schultz Over to ISIS for Beheading.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ghostbusters II
immediate safety
immediatesafety.org
+2 more
oval office
trump administration


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:1 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

