Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Clint Eastwood said that Americans should be less concerned about offending each other and more concerned about offending god.							See Example( s )

In December 2015, the above-displayed meme, featuring a photograph of actor Clint Eastwood along with a quote ostensibly uttered by him about how Americans spend too much time worrying about offending each other and not enough time worrying about offending God, started circulating on social media:
“I wish America was more concerned about offending God and less concerned about offending people.”
We have found no evidence that Eastwood uttered the above-displayed quote. No major publication has attributed these words to the actor, and there is no video evidence showing Eastwood making this comments.
However, the above-displayed quote is strikingly similar to a passage written by a Texas school board member in 2007 while arguing for a prayer to be read during a graduation ceremony:
Many people in the community, meanwhile, were adamant that prayer should occur. One school board member, Vivian Sullivan, visited a Christian fundamentalist Web site called www.tothesource.org and wrote a message about her efforts to include prayer in the graduation ceremonies.
“Maybe we as a nation need to be more concerned with offending God than offending other people!” she wrote. During a May 17 board meeting, Sulli­van downplayed objections to prayer, remarking, “We need a generic invocation asking God for guidance…. If you’re an atheist, then just humor us.”
The quote in question also contradicts Eastwood’s views on religion. In 1973, the actor told the Chicago Tribune that he did not believe in God. More recently, Eastwood said that while he respected people who were deeply religious, he didn’t see a problem with living a life without a religion:
I was always respectful of people who were deeply religious because I always felt that if they gave themselves to it, then it had to be important to them. But if you can go through life without it, that’s OK, too. It’s whatever suits you.
Clint Eastwood did not say that Americans should be more concerned with offending God and less concerned about offending each other. It appears that his name was merely attached to words he didn’t utter in order to lend credence to that notion.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:3 January 2016
Updated:3 January 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

