Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			An image depicts Muslim men buying or stealing propane tanks at a Miami Home Depot.							See Example( s )

Received a link to this article on my Facebook feed. http://www.americasfreedomfighters.com/2015/12/14/alert-mass-home-depot/
Muslims stealing dozens of propane tanks, and buying hundreds of cell phones throughout #Missouri. What's going on? pic.twitter.com/1Ec0uzYGy1
On 9 December 2015, a Facebook user published the status update reproduced below; it read:
Why would anyone need that many bottles of propane. Picture was taken 12/9 in Miami Fl.

Contemporaneous rumors spreading in Missouri claimed suspicious purchases of large quantities of cell phones and thefts of propane tanks portended an imminent Christmastime attack. That rumor was debunked when local law enforcement confirmed the cell phone purchases were not related to violent criminal activity, and were instead the work of re-sellers.
On 14 December 2015, the web site America’s Freedom Fighters published the photo in an article titled “ALERT: Muslim Men Caught Purchasing Mass Quantities of THIS at Home Depot… This CAN’T Be Good.” It said:
There’s a disturbing photo making the rounds on social media that shows two men, one dressed in a Muslim religious outfit, loading a suspicious number of propane tanks into a truck in Florida.
The Muslims were seen loading around 30 propane tanks onto the back of their pickup truck at a Home Depot store in Miami.
As we reported, the FBI is investigating bulk purchases of cellphones by Muslim men at Walmart stores. These are notoriously used by the jihads as detonating devices for bombs as well as a means of untraceable communication.
Also, there have been thefts of massive amounts of propane tanks in that same area.
And as we reported, a massive cache of ‘volatile explosives’ was discovered, again in the same area.
The above-excerpted portion referenced the photograph, purportedly taken in Miami on 9 December 2015, along with “thefts of massive amounts of propane tanks in that same area” and “a massive cache of ‘volatile explosives’ … discovered, again in the same area.” It’s worth noting that the incidents cited occurred in and around Lebanon, Missouri, a distance roughly 1,300 miles from Miami.
We contacted Home Depot’s media relations department to inquire about the photograph. They told us:
This is a rumor that pops up now and then. We haven’t found any high volume purchase of tanks in that area from any customers. We’ve had no such thefts either – that’s been another previous rumor over the years.
The origin of the photograph was unclear, but Home Depot confirmed that neither large purchases nor thefts of propane tanks were reflected in their inventory records. As such, the claim is false.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
crime
home depot
miami
+1 more
terrorism


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:30 December 2015
Updated:30 December 2015
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

