Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			One of the Jalal Brothers was shot while filming a prank video.							See Example( s )

On 22 December 2015, the web site BMW M-Blog published an article claiming that one of three brothers from Melbourne, Australia, known for making YouTube videos, had been shot while filming a prank:
 One of the brothers, Arman Jalal, was shot in the stomach after ‘pranking’ the wrong man.  The incident occurred late Tuesday night in a parking garage in East Melbourne.  The brother is said to be in critical but stable condition at St Vincents & Mercy Private Hospital.
The man they pranked, Scotty Southam, 31, is currently being questioned by Victoria Police but there are reports that he will not be charged.
The above-quoted article was published shortly after the Jalals published a video where a man dressed in “traditional” Arab dress throws “fake bombs” at civilians:

While some people have expressed concerns about the above-displayed video, nobody shot any of the Jalal brothers over these “pranks.” The BMW M-Blog report has not been corroborated by any media outlets from Australia and the Victoria Police have not recorded any incidents relating to the Jalal Brothers.
On 23 December 2015 Arman Jalal took to Facebook to clear up rumors about his alleged gun wound:

None of the Jalal brothers were shot while filming the above-displayed prank video, and according to a spokesperson for the Victoria Police, the videos may have also been staged:
A Current Affair contacted Victoria Police, who were unaware of the video.
“We are not so sure the people pictured in the footage are unsuspecting,” a spokesperson said after viewing the bomb scare prank vision.
The videos have received intense criticism, with people calling the Brothers Jalal stunts dangerous and insensitive.  The three brothers told Australian media they are not trying to threaten anyone, just make people laugh.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Instagram
Published:28 December 2015
Updated:28 December 2015

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

