Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A 1998 photograph shows a young  Barack Obama as a member of the Black Panther Party.					
This image of Barack Obama as a young Black Panther is doctored.
Images altered to suggest President Barack Obama was an active Black Panther aren’t new; a prior version similarly manipulated an existing photograph, which was subsequently circulated via e-mail and web sites prone to spreading misinformation.
Below is the original, unaltered photograph, first published to the web no later than 27 December 2009, showing two individuals in front of various symbols of the New Black Panther Party (a militant group with little to do with the original Black Panthers):
On 23 July 2014, the web site Uncle Sam’s Misguided Children shared the altered image and then deleted  it (presumably because someone pointed out the photograph was not an authentic depiction of President Obama), but it remained visible in the above-linked reverse image search result.
The precise source of the unaltered photograph is unclear, as versions of it posted online were invariably found on sites that used it as a general illustration of content relating to Black Panthers rather than discussion of a specific event. A visible date stamp appeared to suggest the original photograph was taken in 1998.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:22 December 2015
Updated:24 November 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

