Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows "the darkest baby in the world."							See Example( s )

In June 2015, a photograph purportedly showing the “world’s darkest baby” began circulating on the internet. Social Trends PH, one of the first web sites to post the image, didn’t provide any information about the photograph other than claiming that it was taken in South Africa:
An alleged darkest baby in the world that was recently born in South Africa is making buzz in social media. Many netizens however are asking if this photo is real or fake.
By quick research, the photo has no origin or nobody claims it. There is also no report from the mainstream media about this news. Guinness World Records doesn’t have this information also from their online database. Here is the photo.

The earliest posting we could uncover occurred on 10 June 2015 when the above-displayed image was posted by Twitter user @NaimHumphrey. That posting was also void of information other than the oft repeated “South Africa” claim.
So where did this photo come from? Was the world’s “darkest baby” really born in South Africa?
While we were not able to uncover the origins of the above-displayed photo, we were able to determine that the figure shown in the photograph is not a baby at all, but a doll.

The doll was created by “Breath Of Heaven” artist Lilah Pearsons:
I began sculpting in 2005 drawing my inspiration from my love of animals.  In 2006 I began selling my art online and have enjoyed a fulfilling career making dolls ever since.  Each and every doll that I make starts from a lump of polymer clay and forms into something that comes from where, I don’t really know.  Every time I sit down to sculpt is a new experience and I get lost in what I am creating.  At times frustrating, and always a learning and growing experience.
I love Monkeys!!!! They are some of the most enjoyable little faces to sculpt. All my primates are partial sculptures with soft bodies for lots of pose-ability options.  They are made with quality doe suede bodies filled with tiny pellets.  All their clothing is handmade by me.

Pearson’s website and her eBay store show several examples of similar small dolls.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
baby doll
blackest baby
darkest baby
+1 more
The Arts


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:17 December 2015
Updated:17 December 2015
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

