Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows President Obama holding a rocket launcher in a car with Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.							See Example( s )

On 3 December 2015, Facebook user Kelly Roiz posted a photo purportedly showing President Obama in a car with ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi:
Here is a picture of our supposed President Barack Hussein Obama with you won’t believe who! None other then the Leader of ISIS the Radical Muslim Terrorist Group Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi himself. They are best friends people and not only is that disgusting but Baghdadi is just a puppet of Obama’s. President Obama is the actual Leader of ISIS he is the actual Caliph for the Caliphate. He wants to rule the whole world just like Hitler. We need to prepare ourselves for war not later but right now because ISIS is here as you plainly could see from the Terrorist Attack yesterday in San Bernardino CA. God Bless Everyone who believes and to those of you that don’t stop being stupid and open your eyes already.
While the origins of the photo are still unclear, it appears that it was first posted to the internet on 21 July 2014 on the web site Live Leak. That photo was also accompanied by a similar claim:
A Photo depicting a young Barack Obama as Mujahedeen has emerged through leaked files. President Obama can be seen wearing a white shirt, holding a rocket propelled grenade launcher. In the bottom left corner, President Obama’s dearest friend and currently most valuable asset, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi can be seen.
Photo is reportedly taken in Syria in the beginning of the 1980s when Muslim Brotherhood tried to overthrow the Great, Compassionate, Loved, Dearly Respected and Democratically elected President Hafez al-Assad
It’s thought to be at this time when Barack Obama and Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi first came up with the idea of the Islamic State.
“Shireen Said,” the Live Leak user who originally uploaded the photo, admitted in the comment section that Obama was not pictured in the above-displayed image and that she was “trolling” when she posted the photo:
In addition to “Shireen Said”‘s admission that s/he was “trolling” when s/he posted the above-displayed photo, it should be noted that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was between the ages of 10 and 12 in the “beginning of the 1980s,” when the photograph was allegedly taken.  So what we have is a picture that shows four people with weapons in a car, and one of those people bears a darker complexion and a minor resemblance to the President of the United States:
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:9 December 2015
Updated:20 June 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

