Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Neil Gorsuch quoted Henry Kissinger in his Columbial University yearbook entry.					
On 31 January 2017, reporter Laura Rozen posted an image to Twitter purportedly showing a 1988 Columbia University yearbook entry for Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, in which Gorsuch quoted former national security adviser Henry Kissinger as once having said: “The illegal we do immediately. The unconstitutional takes a little longer”:
 
The image was met with some skepticism online, as viewers claimed that Gorsuch couldn’t have quoted the referenced statement from Kissinger in a 1980s yearbook since the statements wasn’t published until 2013, after the cable that included it was provided to WikiLeaks.
This argument, however, is invalid. Although WikiLeaks republished diplomatic and intelligence records dating from the 1970s in 2013, this quote was publicly available long before it appeared in the Kissinger Cables dump from WikiLeaks. For instance, the quote appeared in Gary Allen’s 1976 book “Kissinger: The Secret Side of the Secretary of State.” As Gorsuch graduated Columbia University in 1988, it’s quite plausible that he would have encountered this quote.
Rozen provided further evidence on Twitter that the image was indeed authentic. She posted another page from the yearbook, showing Gorsuch’s fraternity, and a zoomed out image displaying the full page of Gorsuch’s yearbook quote:
 
Although images are real, determining Gorsuch’s intention in offering this quote back then is a matter of speculation. It should be noted that Gorsuch founded a school newspaper called The Fed at Columbia University, which frequently published satirical content. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:1 February 2017
Allen, Gary.   Kissinger: The Secret Side of the Secretary of State.
    76 Press, 1976.   ISBN 9780892450022.  
Gerstein, Josh.   “Neil Gorsuch: Who Is He? Bio, Facts, Background and Political Views.”
    Politico.   31 January 2017.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

