Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows three buildings in New York decorated with window crosses for Easter in 1956.					
Example: [Collected via Facebook, November 2015]

The above-displayed image of buildings in the New York skyline illuminating their windows with crosses for Easter has gone through several cycles of viral popularity over the years and is usually posted along with a claim that such a display would never be allowed in modern times.
The image is real and was taken shortly before Easter in 1956. One newspaper, the Oxnard Press-Courier, published the photo on 31 March 1956 with the following caption:

Huge crosses, formed by lighted windows, blaze above New York’s skyline as part of an Easter display in Manhattan’s financial district. This scene, photographed from the roof of the Municipal Building, features 150-foot-high crosses in the City Services Co., City Bank   Farmers Trust Co., and the Forty Wall Street Corp. buildings. (United Press Telephoto)  
  As for the claim that this form of light display would cause an uproar today, it should be noted that Oklahoma City used building windows to depict crosses during the holidays as recently as 2010:

The Empire State Building also displays festive lights during religious holidays (red, green and white for Christmas, pastal fades for Easter, blue and white for Chanukah) and Chicago’s Daley Plaza has featured a Nativity Scene since 1984.
Last updated: 21 November 2015
Originally published: 21 November 2015
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
christmas
christmas lights
christmas photo
+4 more
easter
easter display
easter lights
history


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:24 November 2015
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

