Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Bananas that display a red discoloration inside are dangerous to human health if eaten.					
Photographs showing bananas with unusual red discolorations inside have been passed around online with varying degrees of paranoia for several years:

I bought a bundle of bananas from the Walmart in Aberdeen tonight and opened it to give to my 2 yr old daughter. This is what I found on the inside! I opened the rest of the bundle and they appeared to be normal bananas. I’m not saying it’s blood but what else would it be?! One banana out of the whole bundle was like this … a little weird! Check your produce before eating it.  You never know what someone put in there.
The claims associated with the photographs have evolved from speculation about the discoloration of the bananas (as seen above) to assertions that the discoloration was due to someone’s purposefully injecting bananas with “infected blood” in order to spread HIV:
This form of reddish discoloration in bananas has nothing to do with blood of any sort, however: It’s a hallmark of a fungal or bacterial diseases that affect bananas grown in some areas and can cause their centers to turn dark red.  Although the discoloration may make bananas seem visually unappealing to consumers, the plant diseases that cause it pose no real health risk to humans who eat such bananas:

There are a variety of plant diseases that can cause the inside of bananas to take on a red discolouration. This discolouration has led to false claims of bananas containing blood.
Nigrospora is a fungal disease that causes the centre of the banana to turn dark red. Nigrospora can infect the fruit in tropical climates where bananas are grown.
Mokillo, moko, and blood disease bacterium are bacterial diseases that can also cause red discoloration in bananas.
While unappealing to eat, these diseases affecting bananas are not a threat to human health, however when in doubt, throw it out or compost them.

As we noted in another article about a rumor concerning supposed blood-tainted oranges, it is nearly impossible for the HIV virus to be transmitted via foodstuffs:
Except for rare cases in which children consumed food that was pre-chewed by an HIV-infected caregiver, HIV has not been spread through food. The virus does not live long outside the body. You cannot get it from consuming food handled by an HIV-infected person; even if the food contained small amounts of HIV-infected blood or semen, exposure to the air, heat from cooking, and stomach acid would destroy the virus.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon
David Mikkelson

Published:11 November 2015
Updated:9 August 2017
Peed, Mike.   “We Have No Bananas.”
    The New Yorker.   10 January 2011.
Canadian Food Inspection Agency.   “Red Fungus Inside Bananas.”
    27 September 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

