Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Minions in the film "Despicable Me" were inspired by photographs of young Nazi poison gas test subjects.							See Example( s )

On 19 July 2015, social media users shared the photograph seen above, along with a caption (translated from Spanish to English) reporting that it depicted young Holocaust victims who were subjected to Nazi gas experiments:
“[MINIONS]” was the name with which you called Jewish children who were adopted by Nazi scientists TO EXPERIMENT WITH THE SAME CYCLON-B gas component used in gas chambers
SABIAN QUE “MINIOMS” ERA EL NOMBRE CON EL QUE SE DENOMINABA A LOS NIÑOS JUDIOS QUE ADOPTABAN LOS CIENTÍFICOS NAZIS PARA HACER EXPERIMENTOS CON CYCLON-B EL MISMO COMPONENTE GASEOSO USADO EN LAS CAMARAS DE GAS DE “SOBIBOR”
The meme spread among Spanish-speaking Twitter users, though many were immediately skeptical of its claim:
Acá otra prueba irrefutable de que los Minions son una invención Nazi. Foto hallada en los archivos secretos X. pic.twitter.com/NFoBU9K7WE
— Jaime (@Morenoestatista) July 19, 2015

Earlier versions of the photograph presented it in a humorous context by tagging it as depicting a live-action film version of Despicable Me from the 1920s.
In actuality the photograph was taken around 1908 (well before the advent of the Nazi Party), and the unusual gear depicted was known as the Hall and Rees Submarine escape apparatus:

Early submarines had a tendency to sink, and a number of accidents before the First World War made the Admiralty look into the possibility of developing an escape apparatus for use by trapped crews. One of these, designed by Captain S.S. Hall and Fleet Surgeon O. Rees, and manufactured by Siebe Gorman, briefly went into production. 
It incorporated a canister containing ‘Oxylithe’, a special chemical which when breathed upon gave off oxygen and absorbed carbon dioxide. In 1903 to 1907 the Swiss Professor Georges Jaubert, invented Oxylithe, which is a form of sodium peroxide (Na2O2) or sodium dioxide (NaO2). As it absorbs carbon dioxide, it emits oxygen. It consisted of a hard helmet and a belted, long-sleeved tunic. Inside the tunic was a canister of sodium peroxide which gave off oxygen while absorbing carbon dioxide. The use of sodium peroxide was an interesting choice as it had a tendency to ignite when wet. The equipment was very bulky and doubts existed about the wearer’s ability to exit through the upper hatch of a submarine when wearing it. Despite its workable design, the Hall-Rees apparatus was phased out — one for each crew member simply took up too much room in a cramped submarine.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
despicable me
history
holocaust
+3 more
minions
minions nazi photo
Zyklon B


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:20 July 2015
Updated:17 July 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

