Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Medicare regulations require that doctors ask patients whether they own guns.							See Example( s )

This March 2012 item combines a claim that Medicare regulations require doctors to ask patients whether they keep guns in their houses with a 2009 piece about VA patients’ being reported to Homeland Security and losing their concealed carry permits for answering “yes” to any one of three diagnostic questions.
In the former case, although some doctors (particularly pediatricians) may ask their patients whether they have guns at home, there is no provision of Medicare regulations that requires them to do so; it’s purely an individual initiative on the part of various doctors.  In June 2011, Florida became the first state to pass a law prohibiting such inquiries when Gov. Rick Scott signed a law barring doctors from routinely asking patients if they own guns unless such questions are “relevant to the patient’s medical care or safety.”  In September 2011, a federal judge declared the law to be unconstitutional and issued an injunction blocking its implementation, but in July 2014 an appeals court overturned that decision and upheld the law:

A federal appeals court [has] upheld a 2011 law that prohibits doctors from asking patients about gun ownership or recording that information in medical records unless it was medically necessary. The law was declared unconstitutional by a federal district judge, Marcia Cooke, who agreed with doctors and gun control advocates that it violated doctors’ free speech rights. But a panel of judges on the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, overturned that ruling, saying that the law was a “legitimate regulation of professional conduct” and that the limits it imposed were “incidental.”

In the latter case, the three questions about feeling stressed, threatened, or wanting to harm others are standard diagnostic queries for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) which are routinely posed to VA patients (particularly those who have served in combat areas such as Iraq or Afganistan).   Patients’ answers to such questions are protected by doctor/patient confidentiality laws and, except in very limited circumstances, may not be disclosed to government agencies (or anyone else) without the patient’s consent,  as noted on the web site of the National Rifle Association’s Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA):

A widely circulated email, allegedly from a “Vietnam vet and retired police officer,” claims he visited a Department of Veterans Affairs clinic and was asked several mental health questions.  The message goes on to claim that the nurse told him a “wrong” answer would be “reported … to Homeland Security” and result in the loss of his Right-to-Carry permit.
Fortunately for veterans, that warning was incorrect.  It’s true that mental health questions are now standard procedure during the patient intake process at VA facilities.  That’s a result of heightened concern about post-traumatic stress disorder and similar legitimate issues affecting veterans. 
However, the Department of Homeland Security isn’t the agency that compiles records of people who are prohibited from possessing firearms.  The FBI does that, in order to operate the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.  And although some VA records are reported to NICS, a record will only be reported if the person has been “adjudicated as a mental defective” — in other words, that the person is mentally incompetent.
At the VA, a person can only be found incompetent after a lengthy process that includes the opportunity for a hearing and appeal.  Just telling a nurse you feel “stressed” (as the email claims) wouldn’t be enough.  And the NICS Improvement Amendment Act of 2007 not only makes clear that any “adjudication” without those procedures won’t result in the loss of gun rights, but also provides a way for those who have been found incompetent to get the finding reversed.

In fact, as Pennsylvania television station WPMT reported in November 2014:

Doctors actually could lose their licenses if they share information about patients owning guns, and language in the Affordable Care Act specifically says that a doctor is not required to ask about guns. “The Government and Obamacare are not forcing us to do this,” said Wellspan Health Pediatrician Caroline Hall. “We ask because we’re concerned about anything that could pose a danger to children, just like we ask about if there are smokers around the children.”


Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:26 March 2012
Updated:19 May 2016
Gallegos, Alicia.   “Federal Judge Bars Florida ‘Don’t Ask’ Gun Law.”
    American Medical News.   26 September 2011.
Marcus, Erin N.   “Gun Query Off Limits for Doctors in Florida.”
    The New York Times.   8 August 2011.
Rubin, Rita.   “Doctors, Groups Clash Over Asking Patients About Firearms.”
    USA Today.   13 March 2011.
Associated Press.   “Florida: Restrictions on Doctors Upheld.”
    The New York Times.   25 July 2014.
WPMT-TV.   “Doctors Keep Asking Patients Whether They Own a Gun.”
     25 November 2014.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

