Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows Hillary Clinton shaking hands with Osama bin Laden.							See Example( s )

A photograph of Hillary Clinton shaking hands with terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden has circulated online (divorced from its original context) ever since it was created for a Photoshop contest held back in 2007 by the web site FreakingNews.com, in which entrants were instructed as follows:
Senator Hillary Clinton officially declared her bid for presidency 2008. Making her announcement Hillary said “I’m in.” This is the phrase she rarely heard from Bill in their bedroom.
In this contest you are asked to photoshop anything connected to Senator Hillary Clinton running for president of United States. Examples may be photoshopping magazine covers, campaign photos, or future presidency achievements.
When the image was first created it was captioned “going for the terrorist vote.” Since then, however, the photograph has been passed around the Internet accompanied by several different background stories, including one claiming that Usama Bin Laden had donated money to Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and another that maintained the picture was proof that Hillary would be too friendly with terrorists if she were elected president. (It should be quite obvious to most viewers that Hillary Clinton could not possibly have publicly met and posed for photographs with Usama bin Laden in the post-9/11 world.)
This isn’t the first time that a photo from Freaking News has escaped the confines of the Photoshopping web site and entered the rumor mill. In February 2015, an image of former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Usama bin Laden created for Freaking News in 2008 began circulating online billed as a “newly declassified photo.” That picture, too, was a digital fabrication, as noted by the nature of Freaking News‘ disclaimer:
Freaking News is a photoshop contest site focusing on news, politics, and celebrities. Actual news stories fuel our photoshop contests with scores of wacky doctored pictures.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:5 June 2015
Updated:13 June 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

