Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows the roller coaster-like Eshima Ohashi Bridge in Japan.							See Example( s )

The Eshima Ohashi bridge, which spans Lake Nakaumi to connect the Japanese cities of Matsue and Sakaiminato, was constructed with a high span in order to allow the passage of boat traffic from the latter city, a major fishing port. Although the mile-long bridge looks something like the upward slope of a roller coaster in the picture displayed above, that appearance is the artifact of telephoto lens usage (which typically flattens perspective in long-distance shots). In fact, the bridge has a gradient of 6.1% on one side and 5.1% on the other, presenting motorists with a gradual climb that doesn’t look quite so scary in standard distance shots:
 
 
The following videos provide an idea of what the sensation of crossing the bridge is like, the first from the perspective of an observer and the second from that of a participant:

 
The Eshima Ohashi bridge is far from being the highest in the world, however. That honor belongs to the Sidu (or Sidhue) River Bridge, a 4000-foot suspension bridge that spans the valley of the Sidu River in China’s Hubei Province at a height of 1,627 feet. By way of comparison, the famous Empire State Building measures only 1,454 from its base to the tip of its antenna spire:
 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
Architecture
ASP Article
bridges
+2 more
fauxtography
japan


Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:11 May 2015
Updated:9 June 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

