Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photographs show the 'parrot plant,' a plant whose flowers resemble a parrot in flight.							See Example( s )

Photographs of the “parrot plant” (Impatiens psittacina), which bears flowers whose shape and coloring are strikingly evocative of a parrot in flight, have been circulating and delighting viewers on the Internet since the mid-2000s.  Although such pictures originally provoked much speculation that the plant did not exist and the images were digitally created composites, the “parrot flower” is indeed real and appears as pictured above, as noted by Ray Morgan in a 2007 article on the Impatiens genus published in The Plantsman:

Recently there has been some controversy on the Internet regarding an Impatiens picture published on certain web sites, bearing a resemblance to a parrot in flight. Many people have suggested that the plant did not exist and the picture was a fake, computer-generated from parts of other pictures. It has been referred to as the parrot plant. The plant, however, does indeed exist, and is Impatiens psittacina, which can be found growing in northern Thailand, northern India and Myanmar (formerly Burma).
It was described by JD Hooker in 1901, and the specific epithet psittacina means parrot-like. The flowers, which do resemble a parrot in flight, are shades of pale lilac, reddish purple, and white.

Additional pictures of the parrot flower can be examined on the web site of a Thailand tourism outfit that offers excursions to view the unusual plant.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:3 June 2009
Updated:1 May 2016
Morgan, Ray.   “Parrot-Billed Impatiens.”
    The Plantsman.   September 2007.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

