Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows Barack Obama without his hand over his heart while the U.S. national anthem is being played.					
Although the custom is sometimes more honored in the breach than in the observance, the U.S. Flag Code states that:
During a rendition of the national anthem when the flag is displayed all present except those in uniform should stand at attention facing the flag with the right hand over the heart.
Given how finely-attuned candidates for high office usually are to the importance of symbolism, Illinois senator (and Democratic presidential hopeful) Barack Obama caused something of a stir in September 2007 when he was seemingly spotted not observing the hand-over-heart protocol during a playing of “The Star-Spangled Banner” at an Indianola, Iowa, steak fry attended by the six top Democratic presidential candidates:
Boy, that’s exactly who we need as President!
Does this man not cross his heart when the National Anthem is playing, or when the flag is raised or lowered? OR, was this an accident on his part?
Photo shows 4 of them, including the infamous Hillary…
Senator Barack Obama, Governor Bill Richardson, Senator Hillary Clinton and Ruth Harkin
during the national anthem. Barack Hussein Obama’s photo (that’s his real name). The article said he REFUSED TO NOT ONLY PUT HIS HAND ON HIS HEART DURING THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE, BUT REFUSED TO SAY THE PLEDGE. How in the hell can a man like this expect to be our next Commander-in-Chief?

The photograph itself is real, one of several images of the Iowa steak fry event published by Time, and shows then-Senator Barack Obama standing with his hands clasped just below his waist, while New Mexico governor Bill Richardson, New York senator Hillary Clinton, and Ruth Harkin (wife of Iowa senator Tom Harkin) stand with their hands held over their hearts. It’s difficult to establish context from a single still image, but other accounts (including ABC News video of the event) documented that the picture was as described:

(It’s not clear from the photograph or the video just what the candidates were looking at. The Flag Code advises that they should be “standing at attention facing the flag,” but none of them is facing the flag displayed behind the platform on which they’re standing. Presumably another flag was in place off to the right of the platform, since most of the candidates were facing that direction.)
As we noted earlier, although the U.S. Flag Code still specifies that those present should stand “with the right hand over the heart” during the playing of the U.S. national anthem, that particular form is one that has generally come to be observed less and less consistently among the general public over the decades:
Experts on the national anthem say the law seems a bit out of date, given its reference to a man’s “headdress.” Yet it’s still cited in several military manuals found on the Web.
Modern custom does not require a hand over the heart, said Anne Garside, director of communication for the Maryland Historical Society, home of the original manuscript of The Star-Spangled Banner.
“I think the bottom line is that you show respect with your demeanor,” she said. “Whether you put your hand over your heart, hold your hat at shoulder level or waist level, is really in this day and age irrelevant.”
As for whether this incident was an “accident,” whether Senator Obama habitually declines to perform the hand-over-heart gesture, or whether there’s any particular meaning to the (non-)action, an Obama campaign spokesperson responded: “Sometimes he does, sometimes he doesn’t. In no way was he making any sort of statement, and any suggestion to the contrary is ridiculous.” The senator himself said that “My grandfather taught me when I was two. During the Pledge of Allegiance, you put your hand over your heart. During the national anthem, you sing.”
When television’s Inside Edition ran a segment on this issue, they included some images (supplied by the Obama campaign) of the senator standing with his hand over his heart during other playings of the national anthem:

The text accompanying some versions of the e-mailed photograph claimed that Senator Obama “refused to say the Pledge of Allegiance.” The activity taking place during the scene in the photograph involved the playing of the U.S. national anthem, not a recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance. The following video clips show Barack Obama reciting the Pledge during the opening of U.S. Senate sessions:
During the Democratic candidates’ debate on 15 January 2008, Senator Obama directly refuted the three primary rumors about him that were then circulating via e-mail: that he is a Muslim, that he was sworn in to Congress on the Quran, and that he refuses to say the Pledge of Allegiance:
This item saw renewed interest in April 2017, when First Lady Melania Trump seemingly had to nudge her husband, President Donald Trump, to place his hand over his heart during the playing of the national anthem while celebrating the annual White House Easter Egg Roll:
That’s a subtle nudge from Melania to remind Trump to lift his hand during the national anthem… https://t.co/P9XlYpjvcQ
— Daniella Diaz (@DaniellaMicaela) April 17, 2017

A spoof article about Barack Obama’s stance on the U.S. national anthem was later circulated via e-mail as a genuine statement from the senator.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:27 October 2007
Updated:17 April 2017
Adair, Bill.   “E-Mail Assailing Obama’s Patriotism Misses Mark.”
    St. Petersburg Times.   9 November 2007.
Cornwell, Rupert.   “Obama Discovers Perils of Not Wearing His Patriotic Heart on His Sleeve.”
    Seattle Post-Intelligencer.   25 October 2007.
Halperin, Mark.   “Steak and Stump Speeches in Iowa.”
    Time.   16 September 2007.
Golab, Art and Abdon M. Pallasch.   “‘I Decided I Won’t Wear That Pin on My Chest’.”
    Chicago Sun-Times.   5 October 2007.
“Obama Captured on Tape Not Putting His Hand Over His Heart During the National Anthem.”
    FOX News   (Hannity & Colmes).      23 October 2007.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

