Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Starbucks offered free drink upgrades to customers who provided the name "Aloha Snackbar" to their baristas.							See Example( s )

In January 2017, not long after Starbucks announced that it planned on hiring 10,000 refugees over the next five years in response to President Donald Trump’s immigration ban, an image appeared purporting to show a #WelcomeRefugees promotion from the company:
Say yes to hiring refugees.
Enjoy a COMPLIMENTARY UPSIZE for your handcrafted beverage purchase when you provide the name “Aloha Snackbar” to your barista.
#refugeeswelcome
The image was also posted to the r/The_Donald section of Reddit on 31 January 2017, along with messages encouraging other members to spread it on social media to see if people would fall for it:
Best memes are when the enemy spreads it, and this one is a go for the libtards to love.
Nimbly navigated!
This image is, of course, a hoax. It is based on a real Starbucks advertisement from 2014; whoever created the fake #refugeeswelcome promotion simply deleted the original text of the genuine Starbucks advertisement (which offered upsized drinks with the purchase of IMAX tickets) and substituted their own.
The biggest mistake in the hoax advertisement is that the letter “y” in the word “say” is missing its lower half:

Providing the name “Aloha Snackbar” to your barista will not net you a free upsize, nor will it do anything to help refugees anywhere in the world.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Savvapanf Photo / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:31 January 2017
Escosia, Matthew.   “Free Upsize Treat From Starbucks and IMAX!.”
    The Film Geek Guy.   2014.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

