Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video shows two hikers walking on a lake of crystal clear ice.							See Example( s )

On 8 December 2014, a video was uploaded to YouTube showing two hikers walking on a lake of ice so clear it appeared as if they were walking on air, with the uploader describing what it depicted as “Me and my friend walking on frozen mountain lake in High Tatras Mountains in Slovakia.”
That video racked up more than four million views in just a few short days. While most viewers were simply amazed at the beauty of the frozen lake in the Tatras Mountains shown in the video, others were skeptical about the authenticity of the scene. One persistent claim offered by skeptics as an argument against the video’s authenticity was clear ice is too thin to hold the weight of two grown adults. This claim was refuted by Accuweather in a post published on 13 December 2014:

Clear ice is about twice as strong as white ice since it is much more dense, according to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. Ice looks cloudy and white when it has air bubbles due to thawing and refreezing.

Another factor frequently questioned by Internet investigators was the actual ice itself: Do such crystal clear waters exist? Slovakian Igor Ludma explained to the New York Daily News a sudden drop in temperature amid a snowless stretch of weather could result in the conditions seen in the video above:

It is only possible when the temperatures fall from being relatively mild to very cold very quickly, and at the same time it’s important that there has not been any snow which tends to make the ice very cloudy. And we have had those conditions lately which would explain this very clear ice.

Accuweather confirmed such weather conditions existed in Slovakia at the time, writing Lomnicky Stit “has been gripped by subfreezing temperatures since the middle of November.”

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:13 December 2014
Updated:20 June 2016
Mussoline, Meghan.   “VIDEO: Two Men Walk on Clear Ice That Looks Like Water in Slovakian Mountains.”
    Accuweather.   13 December 2014.
CEN.   “Glasslike Clear Ice Over Slovakia Lake Makes Hikers Seem They’re Walking on Air.”
    [New York] Daily News.   10 December 2014.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

