Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Grisly photograph shows the Buckley family, whose children beheaded their mother with an axe on Halloween.					
A grisly old photograph has long been circulated online with accompanying text claiming that it pictures Susan and John Buckley, children who decided one Halloween to abandon a planned neighborhood prank of pretending to chop the head off a dummy and instead beheaded their own mother with an axe.  For unexplained reasons, the Buckley children then decided to pose for a photograph with their decapitated mother’s corpse before disappearing to unknown parts to escape the consequences of their crime:

This is the Buckley Family. The children’s names were Susan and John. As a Halloween joke, all the kids in the neighborhood were going to get a dummy and pretend to chop its head off. The Buckley children thought it would be hilarious to actually murder their mother, so when the kids walked up the the door, they got an axe and slaughtered her. Once everyone figured out what they had really done, they called the police, but the kids were long gone by then. The only picture of them was this photo, taken by a trick or treater. The mother’s body was later found half eaten.
All of this seems too fantastically ghastly to be genuine, but not completely impossible, so what’s the real story behind this image?  Is it one of those “too bizarre to be true” tales that really is true?  Has someone taken a genuine old photograph of unknown origin and created a fictitious backstory to explain its spooky appearance?  Did someone merge a real account of a gruesome Halloween murder with an unrelated image?  Are the picture and its explanation both fakes?  
The correct answer is “Phony story, mostly fake photograph.”  The image shown here started out as a genuine, if somewhat mundane, family portrait:
Then the photograph fell into the hands of Halloween artist Edward Allen from Haunted Memories, who transformed it into an image he called “Midwestern Matricide” by altering the original to remove the mother’s head and place an axe into the hands of the daughter:

I always liked this photograph and had been meaning to work with it for a while. I thought it had a really eerie atmosphere with the stark lighting, desolate landscape, and the somber expressions on the family members’ faces. Like so many photos from that era, it was rather washed out, hazy, and yellowed, but I like it that way. After all, it is supposed to look old, faded, and HAUNTED! The changes in this one are subtle, but quite still startling in their effect. I blurred the severed head to give it a sense of movement, as you often see in those old photographs that took so long for the camera to expose. You can’t easily see these minimal changes coming, so it really sneaks up on people!

Edward also created an animated GIF highlighting the differences between the original photograph and his creative rearrangement of it:
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:25 June 2013
Updated:19 October 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

