Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Recently released records document that Barack Obama received college financial aid in the U.S. as a "foreign student from Indonesia."							See Example( s )

One of the avenues of approach taken by “birthers” in their quest to demonstrate that Barack Obama is not eligible to hold the office of President of the United States is to try to demonstrate that, even if he was born in the United States, he gave up his U.S. citizenship somewhere along the way … and if he’s not a U.S. citizen, then he can’t legitimately be President of the United States.  Therefore, many birthers have gleefully seized onto the above-cited news report from April 2009, which purports that Barack Obama attended Occidental College in Los Angeles under a scholarship granted only to students of “foreign citizenship.”  However, this item isn’t a news report at all — it’s a hoax whose elements are all demonstrably false:

 The article is datelined “April 1, 2009” and tagged “AP,” supposedly signifying it came from the Associated Press news agency.  The date is a giveaway to the hoax (it’s April Fool’s Day), and the text of the article does not at all fit the standard Associated Press stylebook guidelines.
 There was no such group as “Americans for Freedom of Information” at the time this article began circulating (although someone has since registered a site using that domain name); in fact, a web site for the then-faux organization was established to poke fun at those who believed it did:

Read these tiny words very closely: the group Americans for Freedom of Information does not exist, just like the supposed “AP article” you keep cutting and pasting into e-mails to your irritated family does not exist, just like the “Daily Mail article” referenced in the fake “AP article” does not exist. They’re all fabrications. Fakes. Hoaxes. Ask yourself why you’re so eager to believe these obvious fakes. No, really. Really, really ask yourself.



Occidental has no record of a “Barry Soetoro” ever attending [Occidental], nor was there ever any such court order [requiring the school to turn over his transcripts], said Jim Tranquada, Occidental College’s communications director, who personally answers the inquiries, demands and pleas of people looking for proof that the president is not who he claims to be.
Tranquada said: “Contemporary public documents, such as the 1979-80 freshman ‘Lookbook’ [a guide distributed to incoming freshman] published at the beginning of President Obama’s first year at Occidental, list him as Barack Obama. All of the Occidental alumni I have spoken to from that era (1979-81) who knew him, knew him as Barry Obama.”


 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:8 May 2009
Updated:14 August 2016
Abcarian, Robin.   “‘Birthers’ Claim Obama Applied to College as a Foreigner.”
    Los Angeles Times.   30 May 2012.
Corcoran, Monica.   “Barack Obama Went Hawaiian Casual at Occidental College in L.A.”
    Los Angeles Times.   18 January 2009.
Gordon, Larry.   “Occidental Recalls ‘Barry’ Obama.”
    Los Angeles Times.   29 January 2007.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

