Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Dutch politician Geert Wilders delivered a speech on the scenario of "America as the Last Man Standing."							See Example( s )

Geert Wilders is a Dutch politician, a member of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Netherlands’ Party for Freedom (a right-wing populist party).  Mr. Wilders is well known in his home country for his strong criticism of Islam, having stated at various times that “Islamic ideology has to be defeated” and “there is no such thing as ‘moderate Islam,'” summing up his views by saying, “I don’t hate Muslims, I hate Islam” and advocating that the Netherlands ban the Quran, Islamic dress, and the further immigration of Muslims to that country.  
The item referenced above is the text of a speech on the topic of Islam delivered by Mr. Wilders at the Four Seasons in New York, during a lunch sponsored by the Hudson Institute on 25 September 2008 (and commonly titled “America as the Last Man Standing” or “The Lights are Going Out All Over Europe” in Internet circulation).
In 2010-11 Geert Wilders was put on trial in the Netherlands, charged with five counts of inciting racial hatred over his anti-Islamic public statements. He was acquitted in June 2011.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:17 November 2009
Updated:13 April 2016
By Kreijger, Gilbert.   “Dutch Populist Geert Wilders Acquitted of Hate Speech.”
    Reuters.    23 June 2011.
Waterfield, Bruno.    “Geert Wilders Trial Suspended After He Attacks Judge.”
    The Daily Telegraph.    4 October 2010.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

