Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer retweeted a satirical item from 'The Onion'  about himself.					
On 29 January 2017, the satirical online publication The Onion tweeted a video titled “5 Things to Know About Sean Spicer,” with the text of the tweet spoofing the White House press secretary by asserting that his “role in the Trump administration will be to provide the American public with robust and clearly articulated misinformation”:
.@SeanSpicer‘s role in the Trump administration will be to provide the American public with robust and clearly articulated misinformation. pic.twitter.com/IlRkZPbDZl
— The Onion (@TheOnion) January 29, 2017
In an unusual development, Spicer himself retweeted The Onion‘s tweet, adding: 

You nailed it. Period! https://t.co/AUmS1C222b
— Sean Spicer (@seanspicer) January 29, 2017


The popularity of Sean Spicer’s retweet as a screenshot on social media and blogs, coupled with the prevalence of spoofed or fabricated tweets, led to some confusion about its legitimacy. Spicer did indeed retweet The Onion item, although his intent in sharing and commenting on it is unclear.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:a katz / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:30 January 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

