Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Congresswoman called for hurricanes to be given African-American names.							See Example( s )

This racist take on a Congresswoman’s actual comments first began circulating on the Internet in September 2005, possibly as a reaction in kind to widespread negative characterizations of African-Americans in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
The practice of bestowing given names upon hurricanes began in 1953 when the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) started naming tropical storms after women. That organization had discovered that dubbing hurricanes with short, distinctive given names was a quicker and less error-prone method of referring to storms than was the older, more cumbersome latitude-longitude identification approach. After feminist groups protested over the implied slur that women alone were tempestuous and unpredictable, men’s names were also used beginning in 1979.
In July 2003, Texas representative Sheila Jackson Lee (a member of the NAACP and the Congressional Black Caucus, and an ardent supporter of the civil rights leadership) criticized the weather establishment for its selection of names with which to christen hurricanes, stating that “All racial groups should be represented.” Her comment was prompted by the 2003 list of hurricane names, which for the first time included French and Spanish appellations (derived from languages spoken in areas that border the Atlantic Ocean, where such storms occur), and she expressed the hope that in the future such lists “would try to be inclusive of African American names” as well.
The National Weather Service’s National Hurricane Center publishes the yearly list of names to be used for identifying storms. The lists compiled for use through 2018 do not appear to include any distinctly African-American monikers.
The racist nature of the message quoted above has cost the job of at least one person who passed it along via e-mail. In 2005, a contract employee for Cobb County, Georgia was fired for sending it through the county’s computer system. Cobb spokesman Robert Quigley said of the incident, “Cobb County has been embarrassed by the actions of [name of employee] and apologizes for any offense.”
In August 2007, the Mayor of Oak Ridge North, Texas, was moved to ask for the resignation of one of the town’s councilpersons who had forwarded the e-mail to three city employees in June of that year. The e-mailer, Councilman Tony Butler, admitted he “made a stupid mistake” but said he did not plan to step down.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
hurricane names
hurricanes
Important If True
+1 more
racism


Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Featured Image:NASA/Flickr
Published:25 March 2006
Updated:4 October 2016
Lee, Renee.   “E-mail Lands Oak Ridge North Official in Hot Water.”
    Houston Chronicle.   23 August 2007.
Thomas, Bill.   “Hurricane Latonya? Hurricane Names Raise a Warning.”
    The Hill.   23 July 2003.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

