Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Video shows a girl pulling puppies from a bucket and throwing them into a river.							See Example( s )

This video of a girl (described as a “young Cruella De Vil”) in a red hoodie plucking several whining puppies from a bucket and flinging them into a swift-moving river with apparent gusto while exclaiming “whee” prompted widespread outrage throughout the international community when it first surfaced in mid-2010.  
Through the efforts of both online investigators and local police officials, the girl shown in the video was eventually tracked down, identified, and questioned by police in the Bosnian city of Bugojno.  Ultimately, though, because the girl was too young,  Bosnian officials were precluded from publicly identifying or prosecuting her.  
After the incident was publicized in the international media, a 75-year-old woman came forward and claimed that she had rescued five of the six puppies who had been flung into the water and put them up for adoption, but others disputed her claim: 

It has also been reported that none of the puppies seen being thrown into the water died, and were in fact rescued by an old woman who allegedly found them along the shore. But animal rights activists don’t buy it.
“This is outrageous,” a PETA spokeswoman, Nadja Kutscher, said, according to a report in a German newspaper. “The puppies that the old woman was with were completely different ones to those thrown into the river in the video. The puppies would never have survived.”

A video was posted to YouTube that purportedly offered an apology from the girl in question and presented the excuse that she had attempted to dispatch the puppies via drowning because they were ill:

Using just one still frame from the video, the apology reads: “My name is Katja Puschnik and I would like to appologize [sic] for my behavior. The puppies belong to my grandma and she told me to get rid off [sic] them because they were only 3 days and they were ill. They had parasites from their mother. I didn’t knew [sic] exactly what to do so I thrown [sic] them in the river because it was a short death. I did not want to make them suffer. I am really sorry for this:(”
There is no way of knowing whether this video is genuine. Or whether someone is trying to set up Puschnik for Web ridicule or worse.

This video continues to resurface from time to time along with calls for justice to be meted out against the girl in the red hoodie, but the time for that is long past: law enforcement authorities have already found and dealt with the girl as they believed appropriate under local law, so there is nothing more to be done about this case from a legal standpoint.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:3 January 2014
Updated:21 July 2016
Matyszczyk, Chris.   “Puppy-Throwing Girl Offers Purported YouTube Apology.”
    c|net.   1 September 2010.
Phillips, Rodri.   “Gran: I Saved Pups Yob Hurled in River.”
    The Sun.   5 September 2010.
Sheridan, Michael.   “Bosnian Police Hunt Girl Throwing Puppies in River in Disturbing Video.”
    [New York] Daily News.   1 September 2010.
Sheridan, Michael.   “Girl Throwing Puppies in River on Video in Bosnia Won’t Face Charges.”
     [New York] Daily News.   6 October 2010.
The Sun.   “Puppy River Girl Quizzed by Cops.”
    3 September 2010.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

