Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hockey's Stanley Cup was once left in a snowbank.					
No sports trophy can boast a history to rival that of hockey’s Stanley Cup. This silver behemoth is the oldest trophy which professional athletes in North America vie for and is awarded each year to the winner of the playoffs held between the teams of the National Hockey League. The Cup’s history is rich and is continually being embellished because one special circumstance sets it apart from other high-ranking sports awards: each year members of the winning team are allowed to take the Cup home with them. While other awards might spend their existences in the well-guarded trophy cases of official shrines to their particular sports, the Stanley Cup regularly hits the road with the very lads who won possession of it. And it is its life outside the trophy case which has given the Cup a lively history independent of the hockey triumphs it commemorates.
The cup itself (donated in 1892 by Lord Stanley, then Governor General of Canada) measures 7½ inches high by 11½ inches across. A banded base has since been added to it, bringing the trophy to a weight of 36 pounds and a height of 35¼ inches. The names of every team (and most of the players) who have won the Cup since 1893 are engraved upon it.
The first winner of the Stanley Cup (then called the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup) was the Montreal Amateur Athletic Association (AAA) hockey club, champions of the Amateur Hockey Association of Canada for 1893. The National Hockey League (NHL) began play in 1917-18 with only three teams (in Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa) and shared the Stanley Cup with the Pacific Coast Hockey Association. In 1921-22 the NHL added a team in Hamilton, and the Cup was also shared with the Western Canada Hockey League. It wasn’t until the 1926-27 season that the Stanley Cup become the sole property of the NHL, which by then had teams in Montreal, Toronto, Boston, Detroit, Chicago, and New York, now collectively known as the “original six.” These days the NHL encompasses thirty teams.
When the Cup is touring with the victors, a replica holds its place in the Hockey Hall of Fame. Once the Cup has been proudly displayed to all and sundry, it is returned to its home in the Hall, and the copy goes back into storage. Lord Stanley’s original bowl was retired in 1969 when it became too brittle (it was 77 years old, after all) and replaced with a carefully crafted replica. The original bowl is on display at the Hockey Hall of Fame.
Each winning player and team management member gets to take the Cup home for a day or two to share it with family and friends. It is on tour approximately 250 days a year. Most of the time the Cup is treated with due reverence by its possessors, but accidents do happen, and of course boys will always be boys.
The Cup gets paraded down many a Main Street, but is also often the guest of honor at backyard barbeques, weddings, and impromptu celebrations at local pubs. It has been used as a baptismal font and a flower pot. It has reportedly been both urinated and defecated into. It has shared a bed with at least one hockey player and his wife. It has been to strip clubs and has been used as a kibble bowl for one player’s dog. A Kentucky Derby winner has eaten from it. It has traveled by dogsled and sometimes been temporarily misplaced by airlines. Some of its more unusual adventures have been:
 
 
 
 
 
The days of the Cup’s more colorful exploits may well be over: now a representative of the Hockey Hall of Fame accompanies it wherever it goes.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ASP Article
canada
hockey
+1 more
stanley cup


Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Featured Image:StanleyCupYosemiteVisit/Flickr
Published:30 September 2002
Updated:1 July 2016
Allen, Kevin.   Why Is the Stanley Cup in Mario Lemieux’s Pool?
    Chicago: Triumph Books, 2000.   ISBN 1-572-43390-6.
Conaway, Tom.   “Stanley Cup Comes to Town.”
    The [Kitchener-Waterloo] Record.   15 July 1998   (p. F1).
Dunnell, Milt.   “Rocket Hoisted Eight Cups So He’s Entitled to Drop One.”
    Toronto Star.   8 February 1993   (p. D3).
Farber, Michael.   “How Cup Enjoyed Its Summer.”
    The [Montreal] Gazette.   10 September 1993   (p. C1).
Hustak, Alan.   “Stanley Cup Hits Century Mark.”
    The [Montreal] Gazette.   3 March 1993   (p. E1).
Stefaniuk, Walter.   “You Asked Us.”
    Toronto Star.   9 August 2002   (p. B2).
Ulmer, Michael.   If the Cup Could Talk.
    Chelsea, MI: Sleeping Bear Press, 2000.   ISBN 1-886-94762-7.
Ulmer, Michael.   “Couple’s Cup Runneth Over.”
    Calgary Herald.   20 April 1998   (p. A3).
Vecsey, George.   “Lord Stanley’s Cup Runs Over.”
    The New York Times.   24 May 1988   (p. A23).
Toronto Star.   “The Adventures of Stanley’s Cup.”
    14 April 2000.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

