Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Canada Dry beverage company got its name because it produced alcohol-free beverages during Prohibition.							See Example( s )

“Drink Canada Dry is a slogan, not a command!” runs an old joke, a bit of punning humor that plays on dual interpretations of a popular beverage producer’s advertising slogan. (We don’t know exactly how old that joke is, but Jack Benny referred to it as a familiar piece of humor during his first professional radio broadcast in 1932, on a program sponsored by Canada Dry.)
The question at hand here has to do with the origins of that beverage producer’s name. Why is a company headquartered in Texas and best known for liquid products such as ginger ale, club soda, and tonic water called “Canada Dry”?
The “Canada” part is easy: The company was started by a Canadian pharmacist, John J. McLaughlin, who opened a small carbonated water plant in Toronto in 1890 and sold its output to area drugstores for use in fruit juices and other flavored beverages. Not until 1919, after McLaughlin had developed his own brand of beverage, did his company begin shipping product to the United States. (Canada Dry essentially became a U.S. company after it was bought up by P.D. Saylor and Associates in 1923. Canada Dry’s current owner, the Texas-based Dr Pepper Snapple Group, bought the company from Norton Simon Inc. in 1982, then was itself acquired by UK-based Cadbury Schweppes in 1995.)
The “dry” part of the name is easier to understand when one considers that the word “dry” has several different meanings other than “not wet,” particularly as related to the area of potables. “Dry” can mean “not sweet” (as in a “dry wine”), and it can also mean “made with only a small portion of a particular ingredient” (as in a “dry martini” made with only a minimal amount of vermouth). When John J. McLaughlin set out to concoct a new soft drink formula in the early 20th century, most ginger ales were much more dark, syrupy, and sweet than the product we’re used to today. After much experimentation, he created a new, dry (i.e., less sweet) and light soda he dubbed Canada Dry Pale Ginger Ale.
As Canada Dry was establishing itself as a national brand in the U.S. market in the early 1920s, the “dry” portion of its name took on another (unintended) meaning when the United States enacted Prohibition and officially became a “dry country” (i.e., banned the manufacture and sale of alcoholic liquors). With alcohol from established breweries no longer available through the legitimate market, many people turned to rougher, home-brewed booze, and Canada Dry products proved to be the perfect mixers to help disguise the raw taste of hooch.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ASP Article
canada
canada dry
+3 more
prohibition
soda
What's In A Name?


Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Featured Image:DonnaMarie113/DeviantArt
Published:5 October 2006
Updated:1 July 2016
Morris, Evan.   From Altoids to Zima: The Surprising Stories Behind 125 Famous Brand Names.
    New York: Fireside, 2004.   ISBN 0-7432-5797-9   (pp. 23-24).
Rodengen, Jeffrey.   The Legend of Dr Pepper/Seven-Up.
    Fort Lauderdale: Write Stuff Syndicate, 1995.   ISBN 0-945903-49-9   (pp. 69-76).
The New York Times.   “Reynolds Seeks Canada Dry.
    16 March 1984.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

