Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows a man named Brian Peppers, who was a registered sex offender in Ohio.					
In May 2005 we began receiving many inquiries similar to the following:

A photo of an alleged sex offender named “Brian Peppers” surfaced in my office today.  The picture was obtained from the ohio sex offender website.
The picture looks too gruesome to be real.


This photograph, which accompanied an entry in Ohio’s Electronic Sex Offender Registration and Notification (eSORN) system, was real.  The picture depicted a then 34-year-old man named Brian Peppers, who was listed in that registry due to a conviction for Gross Sexual Imposition in Lucas County, Ohio, in 1998.
Although many viewers were of the opinion that the image was fake (possibly a picture of some type of mannequin or a digitally manipulated photograph), and that the entry in eSORN was an erroneous one (possible a mistake, an inside joke, or a hacking prank), we verified both the photo and the entry in several ways:

 We contacted the Ohio Attorney General’s office, who told us: “This is an accurate photo of this offender.”
 The same Brian Peppers appeared on a list of registered sex offenders in Lucas County.
 A record existed for court proceedings related to cases involving a person named Brian J. Peppers, charged with two counts of Gross Sexual Imposition.
 We heard from several people who lived in or near Lucas County and said they’d encountered Brian Peppers.  One of them told us he had a relative who attended school with Brian Peppers and forwarded us some high school yearbook photos to document it:

Brian Peppers’ unusual physical appearance might have been due to a condition such as Apert Syndrome or Crouzon Syndrome,


Brian Peppers passed away in February 2012 at the age of 43.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:24 May 2005
Updated:10 April 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

