Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Congress has "officially initiated President Obama's impeachment."							See Example( s )

A large number of articles falsely declaring that Congress has started impeachment proceedings against President Obama have circulated widely on the Internet since Barack Obama took office in January 2009, most of them spoofs from well known fake news web site.  A similar item from February 2014 (quoted above) is not a spoof, but it’s just as false.
In December 2013, Representative Tom Rice of South Carolina introduced H.Res. 442, also known as the STOP (Stop This Overreaching Presidency) resolution, to Congress.  That resolution was not, as claimed above, one which initiated impeachment proceedings against President Obama, nor did it state that the President “should be impeached.”  Rep. Rice’s STOP resolution was a non-binding one (essentially an expression of opinion with no legal force behind it) declaring that Congress should file a lawsuit against President Obama in U.S. District Court in order to challenge various actions he has undertaken via executive order:

A group of House Republicans is pushing a resolution to bring legal action against President Barack Obama for overstepping his authority in executive orders.
The STOP (Stop This Overreaching Presidency) resolution, sponsored by Rep. Tom Rice, targets Obama for allowing a year extension health care policies that were ended because of Obamacare; delaying the employer mandate for one year; deferring the deportation of illegal immigrants brought to the country as children and waiving part of the welfare work requirement.
Rice said he’s spoken with the House GOP leadership about the resolution — which would be non-binding if it ever advanced, and wouldn’t need Senate approval — and a hearing is being scheduled in both the Judiciary and Administration Committees.
The resolution has 74 Republican cosponsors, ranging from the more conservative to moderate members. Rice held a press conference to announce it with 12 other Republicans.

Other than in the general sense of expressing disapproval of the President’s actions, nothing about this resolution had anything to do with the constitutional impeachment process: it did seek to initiate formal impeachment hearings against President Obama, nor was it a step towards removing him from office.
Although 119 cosponsors (all of them Republicans) ultimately signed onto the STOP resolution, no action was ever taken on it by Congress after it was introduced to the House: it was not passed, voted upon, or even put up for a vote.  It was immediately referred to the Committee on Rules and the Committee on House Administration, and it languished there until the end of the 113th Congress in January 2015.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:13 February 2014
Updated:21 May 2016
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

