Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Mexican legislators expressed concern that an Arizona law would prompt an influx of Mexicans into Sonora from Arizona.							See Example( s )

The gist of this item is true in the sense that in January 2008, a delegation of nine legislators from Sonora (the Mexican state immediately south of Arizona) did come to Tucson to express concerns that Arizona’s recently enacted Legal Arizona Workers Act (an employer sanctions law which imposed penalties on employers who knowingly hired persons lacking documentation of their status to legally work in the United States) would have a deleterious effect on Sonora.  After a press conference held at the offices of Project PPEP a day prior to the delegation’s meeting with Hispanic legislators, the Tucson Citizen reported the Sonoran representatives posing questions such as the following:
[Sonoran legislators say] Sonora — Arizona’s southern neighbor, made up of mostly small towns — cannot handle the demand for housing, jobs and schools it will face as illegal Mexican workers [in Tucson] return to their hometowns without jobs or money.
They want to tell [Arizona legislators] how the law will affect Mexican families on both sides of the border. 
“How can they pass a law like this?” asked Mexican Rep. Leticia Amparano Gamez, who represents Nogales.
“There is not one person living in Sonora who does not have a friend or relative working in Arizona,” she said in Spanish.
“Mexico is not prepared for this, for the tremendous problems” it will face as more and more Mexicans working in Arizona and sending money to their families return to hometowns in Sonora without jobs, she said.
“We are one family, socially and economically,” she said of the people of Sonora and Arizona.
Amparano said the Mexican legislators are already asking the federal government of Mexico for help for Sonora.
Rep. Florencio Diaz Armenta, coordinator of the delegation, represents San Luis, south of Yuma, one of Arizona’s agricultural hubs, which employs some 28,000 legal Mexican workers.
“What do we do with the repatriated?” he asked. “As Mexicans, we are worried. They are Mexicans but they are also people — fathers and mothers and young people with jobs” who won’t have work in Sonora.
He said the Arizona law will lead to “disintegration of the family,” as one “legal” Mexican parent remains in Arizona and the other returns to Mexico.
Rep. Francisco Garcia Gámez, a legislator from Cananea and that city’s former mayor, said the lack of mining jobs there has driven many Mexicans to Arizona to find work. He said they depend on jobs in Arizona to feed their families on both sides of the border. 
In late April 2010 this item began to be circulated anew, with many readers misinterpreting the included quotes to be a reaction to SB 1070 (Arizona’s controversial immigration law, which had been signed into effect on 23 April 2010), but by then the piece was a two-year-old news story which referred to a related but completely different law.
In July 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the Legal Arizona Workers Act.  Also that month, a U.S. District judge issued a temporary injunction that halted the enforcement of key parts of SB 1070.  
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:13 August 2010
Britt, Russ. “Arizona Employers Still Face Immigration Crackdown.” The Wall Street Journal. 29 July 2010.
Kornman, Sheryl. “Sonoran Officials Slam Sanctions Law in Tucson Visit.” Tucson Citizen. 15 January 2008.
Richey, Warren. “Why Judge Susan Bolton Blocked Key Parts of Arizona’s SB 1070.” The Christian Science Monitor. 28 July 2010.
Schwartz, David. “Arizona Governor Signs Toughest U.S. Immigration Law.” Reuters. 24 April 2010.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

