Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Photograph shows Hercules, the world's biggest dog.							See Example( s )

We started receiving the above-displayed photograph (of a woman and a man leading a horse and a large dog through a park-like area), without any accompanying explanation, in March 2007. A few weeks later, someone added text identifying the dog as “Hercules, the World’s Biggest Dog.”
This information is accurate (in the sense that an English mastiff named Hercules owned by a Massachusetts man was once recognized as the world’s heaviest dog), but it doesn’t have any connection to the dog shown in the image displayed above, which clearly does not match a newspaper photograph of the real Hercules (and his owner):

(We note that the term “biggest dog” is somewhat ambiguous and is used here to mean “heaviest dog” rather than “tallest dog.”  Guinness currently assigns the latter title to Zeus, a Great Dane who measured 44 in.  and passed away in 2014.)
An English mastiff named Kell, described as “weighing 21 stone (294 lbs.), taller than a Shetland pony, and more than six feet long,” was previously described as the “world’s heaviest dog,” but it’s unclear whether she was still alive at the time the “Hercules” photograph began circulating. (Different newspaper articles from 2001 referred to her as both living and dead, and we could find nothing but brief, indefinite mentions of her after early 2002.  If she were still alive, why she ceded the “world’s heaviest dog” title to Hercules would be puzzling, because news accounts generally listed her as being slightly heavier than Hercules.)  
Also, the dog pictured above looks to be a Neapolitan mastiff rather than an English mastiff.   If so, the canine would appear to be either a digital manipulation or a freakishly large example of its breed, because adult Neapolitan mastiffs typically reach a height of 24-31 inches at the shoulder.  (Contrast, for example, the above image with other photographs demonstrating the size of Neapolitan mastiffs relative to people.  Adult Neapolitan mastiffs typically reach a height of 24-31 inches at the shoulder.)  
Another image shows the same scene from the rear:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:6 April 2007
Updated:20 August 2016
Daniels, Bill.    “21-Stone Pooch in Love Plea.”
    The Mirror.    29 August 2001   (p. 10).
Feltz, Vanessa.    “When Tiddles Turns Tubby.”
    Sunday Express.    7 April 2002   (p. 45).
McClaughlyn, Kerrita.    “Hercules Puts Bite on Title as World’s Largest Dog.”
    The Boston Herald.    8 June 2001   (p. 24).
    BBC.   “20-Stone Dog Is World’s Heaviest.”
    11 September 1999.
CNN.   “World’s Largest Dog Weighs 284.”
    9 June 2001.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

