Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Newspaper reporters fall for old funny name gags.					
There are certain gags you expect to be old hat to everyone past puberty, such as the standard suite of “knock knock” jokes, time-worn setups for prank calls, and funny book title/author combinations.
A familiar amalgam of the latter two japes is the giving out of names that appear innocuous in written form or sound plausible when pronounced slowly but produce racy or embarrassing combinations when uttered out loud at a normal speaking pace (e.g., Hugh Jass, Anita Bath, Mike Rotch), a joke usually enjoyed by duping a switchboard operator into paging someone using one of those names.  (This is a running gag that Bart Simpson repeatedly pulls on Moe the bartender in the animated TV series The Simpsons.)
As I said, I’d expect everyone past junior high school to recognize these old routines from miles away, but I’ve been proved wrong before — a few years we found ourselves at a downtown Las Vegas casino on Christmas Eve, and we distinctly heard the switchboard operator issue several pages over the casino’s P.A. system for a “Mike Hunt.”  And now we have more apparent confirmation that these gags haven’t quite been killed by familiarity, this one courtesy of a 20 April 2016 Baltimore Sun article that quoted the ubiquitous Jack Mehoff in an article about attendees at a Donald Trump campaign appearance:

Supporters of Donald Trump came to Stephen Decatur High School excited, they said, at the opportunity to hear the Republican presidential front-runner without the filter of the news media.
They described the real estate developer and reality show star as a candidate who could unite the country.
Jack Mehoff, 19, praised Trump as a “hardworking, smart individual that wants the best for all people in this country that are allowed to be here.”

(The article was eventually amended to quote Jack Morris rather than Jack Mehoff.)
Back on 13 April 2003, in an article about a controversial demonstration led by Martha Burk during the Masters golf tournament at the Augusta National Golf Club to protest the club’s exclusion of women from membership, the Charleston Post and Courier reported that one of the protesters taken into police custody had a rather unusual name:

Some of that local frustration was evident during the hour-long protest, when people in passing cars shouted derogatory comments like “Burk go home” and honked their car horns in support of Johnson and Augusta National’s refusal to change its policy.
Throughout the morning, law enforcement officers stood on the perimeter of the five-acre field. At no point did the protest turn violent, though officers escorted Heywood Jablome away after he held up a sign directly in front of Burk that read “Make me dinner” before shouting “Oprah rules.”

The reporter responsible for this story acknowledged his embarrassment in a follow-up


I’m a legend — and it only took two words to make me one. 
It all started at the Masters in Augusta, Ga., while covering the protests outside the gates of the Augusta National Golf Club.
With a swarm of reporters, police and protesters there for Martha Burk’s high-profile stand against the club’s male-only membership policy, one man held up a sign reading “Make me dinner” before being escorted away by police. 
Once off the protest site, the man talked with about a dozen reporters and identified himself by a bogus name, a name that, while appearing innocuous enough on paper, refers to a sex act when sounded out. 
Unfortunately, I never actually heard the protester’s name pronounced, just caught him spelling it out for others and jotted it down in my notepad. 
I wrote the story for Sunday’s paper, tucked the quote down near the bottom, filed it to my editors in Charleston and blithely went about my life, unaware that this one name was about to make my own name known around the country.
On Monday afternoon, thanks to some astute readers with a vivid recollection of elementary school vernacular, I realized I had been duped.

At Christmas 2009, the ever-present Heywood surfaced again, this time in an article published by the Davenport, Iowa, Quad-City Times about Christmas dinners served to the needy at Father’s Conroy’s Vineyard of Hope.  The original on-line version of the article opened with the following paragraphs:

Cold seeped through heavy clothing as Haywood Jablomie dug into a meal of turkey and trimmings during Sister Ludmilla Benda’s Christmas Day dinner at Father’s Conroy’s Vineyard of Hope, 411 Pershing Ave., Davenport.
Asked why he was there, Jablomie pointed toward the side of the brick building. “Read the sign over there: ‘Father Conroy’s Vineyard of Hope.’ That’s what it is,” he said.

Additionally, the 27 December 2009 edition of a Fargo, North Dakota, newspaper featured a photograph of one “Haywood Jablome” digging out a snowdrift:
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:22 April 2003
Updated:21 April 2016
Scott, James.   “Protesters Overshadowed by Media, Police.”
    The [Charleston] Post and Courier   13 April 2003.
Scott, James.   “Embarrassing Lesson: Duped Reporter Learns the Hard Way.”
    The [Charleston] Post and Courier   20 April 2003.
Speer, Mary Louise.   “Christmas Dinner: Vineyard of Hope Serves Holiday Meals.”
    [Davenport] Quad-City Times.   26 December 2009.
Duncan, Ian.   “Crowds Gather to Support, Protest Donald Trump on Eastern Shore.”
        The Baltimore Sun.   20 April 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

