Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A video clip shows a meteorite striking a pickup truck in the desert.							See Example( s )

A group of recreationists videotaping their desert outing suddenly spot something unusual in the sky above.  It’s a meteor!  The flaming ball smashes directly into the ground around a passing pickup truck, the blast sending the cameraman and his companions reeling.  Amazing!  Even more amazingly, the truck is apparently unscathed by the impact, promptly starting up again and driving off to the accompaniment of cheers from the onlookers.
Astounding real-life footage?  No, another case of an edited television commercial presented out of context.  This clip was taken from a 2005 TV commercial advertising the Toyota Tacoma, produced for the automaker by Method Studios.
The full clip plainly displays the Toyota name and logo at the end:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
David Mikkelson

Published:16 November 2005
Updated:21 April 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

