Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Saturday Night Live writer was suspended for tweeting about Trump's youngest child.					
A writer for weekly NBC sketch comedy show “Saturday Night Live” was indefinitely suspended after backlash over a tweet she wrote on 20 January 2017 about President Donald Trump’s youngest child, Barron.
Katie Rich, who writes jokes for the show’s mock news segment, “Weekend Update,” posted a tweet during the 45th president’s inauguration that 10-year-old Barron Trump “will be this country’s first homeschool shooter.” On 23 January 2017, Rich tweeted an apology:
I sincerely apologize for the insensitive tweet. I deeply regret my actions & offensive words. It was inexcusable & I’m so sorry.
— Katie Rich (@katiemaryrich) January 23, 2017
A person who is familiar with the situation, but not authorized to comment on the record, told us that Rich was suspended immediately after the tweet, and the suspension is indefinite.
Rich has worked at SNL since 2013.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Debby Wong / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:24 January 2017
Itzkoff, David. “Katie Rich of ‘S.N.L.’ Is Suspended for Tweet Mocking Barron Trump.”
The New York Times. 23 January 2017.
Bradley, Laura. “Comedy Community Rallies Around S.N.L. Writer Suspended for Barron Trump Tweet.”
Vanity Fair.24 January 2017.
Enloe, Chris. “‘Saturday Night Live’ Writer Smears Donald Trump’s 10-Year-Old Son.”
The Daily Caller. 20 January 2017.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

