Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Barack Obama put his hand on Melania Trump's buttocks during her husband's 20 January 2017 inauguration.					
On 22 January 2017, the Facebook page “No Lapdog Media II” circulated an image purportedly showing former United States President Barack Obama touching First Lady Melania Trump’s backside on the day of Donald Trump’s inauguration, along with a caption asking rhetorically, “What will feminists say about this?”  

How will Obama mansplain this?
This image is fake.  It was digitally manipulated from either a photograph or a screenshot pulled from a video taken on 20 January 2017, as Donald and Melania Trump arrived at the White House just before the inauguration ceremony. Videos clearly show the Obamas leading the Trumps into the White House; those videos also show that former President Obama’s hand was above Michelle Obama’s hand the entire time.
The moment can be glimpsed at the 1:08 mark of the following video:

In addition to the video evidence, a closer examination of the image clearly shows a “ghost arm” where Obama’s real arm was before it was doctored:

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
barack obama
donald trump
melania trump
+2 more
michelle obama
no lapdog media II


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:23 January 2017
Updated:23 January 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

