Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Coretta Scott King wrote a letter opposing Jeff Session's confirmation for appointment as a federal judge.							See Example( s )

Alabama senator Jeff Sessions was nominated by President-elect Donald Trump to serve as his administration’s Attorney General, and as Sessions’ confirmation hearings unfolded in January 2017, criticism of his record by civil rights activist Coretta Scott King resurfaced after two decades.
Coretta Scott King, who founded the King Center for Nonviolent Change following the 1968 assassination of her husband, civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., wrote the Senate Judiciary Committee in March 1986 urging the committee not to confirm Sessions’ appointment as a federal judge.
The letter was never entered into the congressional record by the committee head, Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, but the Washington Post published it in its entirety on 10 January 2017.
King’s letter accused Sessions of abusing his authority while investigating voter fraud allegations two years earlier as a federal prosecutor in Alabama, stating in part:
In initiating the case, Mr. Sessions ignored allegations of similar behaviors by whites, choosing instead to chill the exercise of the franchise by blacks because of his misguided investigation. In fact, Mr. Sessions sought to punish older black civil rights activists, advisors, and colleagues of my husband, who had been key figures in the civil rights movement of the 1960s. These were persons who, realizing the potential of the absentee vote among Blacks, had learned to use the process within the bounds of legality and had taught others to do the same. Their only sin the committed was being too successful in gaining votes.
Making Sessions a federal judge, she wrote, “would irreparably damage the work of my husband” and other advocates for voting rights:
Sessions’ judicial nomination was ultimately denied, but following Coretta Scott King’s death in 2006, Sessions (by that time a senator) marked her passing with a statement which read (in part):
Through many dangers, toils and snares, she served as a partner of Dr. King in the monumental and peaceful drive for equality. All Alabamians should be proud of Mrs. King’s role in that effort to make America and Alabama a better place.
On 7 February 2017, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) attempted to read King’s letter on the Senate floor to protest Sessions’ nomination, but was forced to stop after Republican senators voted to silence her. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) invoked Senate Rule 19, which states that “directly or indirectly, by any form of words impute to another Senator or to other Senators any conduct or motive unworthy or unbecoming a Senator.” 
By reading King’s letter, McConnell argued, Warren had “impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from Alabama.”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Wikipedia Commons
Published:19 January 2017
Lowery, Wesley. “Read the letter Coretta Scott King wrote opposing Sessions’s 1986 federal nomination.” The Washington Post. 10 January 2017.
Kane, Paul and O’Keefe, Ed.. “Republicans vote to rebuke Elizabeth Warren, saying she impugned Sessions’s character.” The Washington Post. 8 February 2017.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

