Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			President Obama was captured on a "hot mic" making offensive comments to Al Sharpton at a Martin Luther King, Jr. Day event.					
On 16 January 2017, the Last Line of Defense web site published an article reporting that President Obama was caught making offensive comments to the Rev. Al Sharpton when he believed his microphone was no longer transmitting:
[Obama’s King] “tribute couldn’t possibly have been more canned or heartless. After the address, while the crowd was less than eagerly clapping, Obama shook hands with a man we’ve become all-too familiar with, Reverend Al Sharpton, not realizing his mic was still live. The sound man cut out the last few words when he figured out what was going on, but before that, a large number of people in the crowd heard Obama say to Sharpton:
“These crackers got no idea what it’s like to feel the struggle. Speakin’ of, how you gonna keep all your n*ggas in line while whitey Trump rules the roost?”.
There was no truth to this story, which was fabricated by The Last Line of Defense (The Resistance), a fake news site whose disclaimer notes:
The Resistance may include information from sources that may or may not be reliable and facts that don’t necessarily exist. All articles should be considered satirical and any and all quotes attributed to actual people complete and total baloney. Pictures that represent actual people should be considered altered and not in any way real.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
al sharpton
barack obama
last line of defense
+3 more
martin luther king day
martin luther king jr.
the last line of defense


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Joseph Sohm / Shutterstock, Inc.
Published:18 January 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

