Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Vanilla ice cream was originally a deep, dark black color before white people demanded it be changed in 1912.							See Example( s )

On 18 January 2017 at least two Facebook pages shared the above-reproduced meme, which claims that vanilla ice cream was originally a deep black color, but it offended white people so much that its hue was changed in 1912:
My grandma lived to be 102. She told us in her days, the early 1900’s they ate vanilla ice cream in it’s Original Color but when she reached a teen, 1912, it changed to White. She said White people couldn’t tolerate eating something that tasted Soooooo delicious being black, so started your “Added Preservatives”
One does not need to be a history buff or a culinary whiz to be skeptical of the claim’s veracity. Anyone who has ever made vanilla dishes is probably aware that vanilla packs a lot of flavor into a relatively small bean, and is rarely more visible than small dark specks in dishes like creme brulee.
Early images of ice cream are easy to find. The oldest we could dig up is from 1876:

One from the same era showed boys in London eating pale ice cream, and an 1899 shot of prohibitionist Carry Nation depicted her with a white vanilla cone as well:

Photographs from 1900, 1908, and 1909 showed similarly pale ice cream.
 
We found dozens of photographs of black ice cream, with or without a black cone. The photographs shared a common thread: attribution to New York City ice cream shop Morgenstern’s, and its “coconut ash” flavor:
Black Magic ice cream – enchanted w/coconut ash-activated charcoal, Mexican vanilla beans & Créme de Cacao, in a Charcoal waffle cone. YUM! pic.twitter.com/OC0M2HXMGv — Sarah Jane (@sarahjane8567) November 15, 2016

We contacted a representative for Morgenstern’s, who told us that the image indeed showed its “charcoal ash” flavor. The representative confirmed that they also sold black cones.
So while the image of black ice cream is real, the backstory is not. Vanilla ice cream is naturally off-white, and the meme has no basis in fact.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
ice cream
inaccurate viral photos
morgenstern's
+2 more
real photo inaccurate description
vanilla


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Featured Image:Shutterstock
Published:18 January 2017
Updated:10 December 2017
Kansas Historical Society.   “Carry A. Nation.”
    Accessed 18 January 2017.
Getty Images.   “Society Women Eating Ice Cream Cones.”
    Accessed 18 January 2017.
Minnesota Historical Society.   “Ice Cream!”
    Accessed 18 January 2017.
The Portal to Texas History.   “An Ice Cream Social at the First Methodist Church in Texas City Around 1909.”
    Accessed 18 January 2017.
Photo History, Sussex.   “Bolla & Biucchi and the Fortune of War.”
    Accessed 18 January 2017.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

