Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Two college students have vowed to remove their own penises to protest a planned U.S.-Mexico border wall.					
In January 2017, an article published on an obscure (and dubious) web site called RightWingNow.com purported to describe a bizarre form of student protest over President Donald Trump’s plan to build a wall along the border between the United States and Mexico:
In a bizarre form of protest, University of California freshman Seth Greenberg has promised to publicly remove his penis (he did not specify the method of removal) if Donald Trump begins project work on the US Mexican border wall.
“I’m so confident that Trump is full of shit, that I will cut my dick off, publicly if he adds even a mile of new wall” stated Greenberg in an on the street interview, where he was simultaneously protesting prayer in public school.
When pressed about the validity of his claim, Greenberg promised that “I will really do this. I feel that if he does actually build any of the wall, me removing my penis publicly will bring worldwide attention to the injustice being inflicted against the Mexican people.”
Other sites ran the same story, with at least one adding to it by both referencing actual quotes from President-elect Donald Trump and posting a supposed picture of the student named “Greenburg” who threatened to cut off his penis in protest. But that picture was not of anyone named “Greenburg,” nor did it have anything to do with the University of California system: it is actually taken from an interview with an Umpqua Community College student following a shooting attack at that school on 1 October 2015.
The site that originated the Greenberg “interview” doubled down two days later with a second story adding another student, “Jakob Connulson,” and an alleged political group, “Open Borders Friends,” to the mix.
Like the nonexistent “Greenberg” student pictured in the stolen photograph, neither Connulson nor any group bearing the name “Open Borders Friends” appears to exist on any University of California campus.  
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
border wall
right wing now
rightwingnow.com
+1 more
university of california


Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Published:17 January 2017
Updated:23 February 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

