Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Michelle Obama's Secret Service detail abruptly quit during her Hawaii vacation and left her on the street.					
The disreputable web site Last Line of Defense published an article in December 2016 claiming that First Lady Michelle Obama’s Secret Service detail had abruptly quit and left her alone on the street in Hawaii:
Michelle Obama’s nasty attitude has finally cost her bigly. The fierce First Lady, well-known for treating her Secret Service detail like animals, was screaming at them while walking down a street in Maui when they decided they had been her victim for the last time and walked away, leaving her alone and visibly frightened.
Michelle was forced to walk back to the hotel the First Family was spending your money to stay at all by herself while crowds of people gathered to throw lettuce at her and shout “Trump Trump Trump!!!” By the time she made it back she was in tears.
While The Last Line of Defense’s  article received some attention when it was first published, the story recirculated more widely on social media in January 2017 after it was picked up and republished by web sites such as USPostMan.com.
However, there was no truth to the above-quoted story. 
Last Line of Defense has a history of publishing fake news stories. The web site also carries a disclaimer stating that its content should not be trusted:
The Resistance may include information from sources that may or may not be reliable and facts that don’t necessarily exist. All articles should be considered satirical and any and all quotes attributed to actual people complete and total baloney. Pictures that represent actual people should be considered altered and not in any way real.
When this story was published on USPostMan.com, it was accompanied by a similar disclaimer:
Note: We at uspostman cannot make any warranties about the completeness, reliability and accuracy of this information.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
first lady
michelle obama
secret service
+1 more
the last line of defense


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:FLICKR
Published:14 January 2017
Updated:14 January 2017
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

