Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The U.S. Army is investigating ways to build biodegradable bullets that will sprout into plants.					
In mid-January 2017, numerous news outlets reported on a Department of Defense solicitation for research proposals for the development of “biodegradable training ammunition loaded with specialized seeds to grow environmentally beneficial plants that eliminate ammunition debris and contaminants”. The grant was announced through the DoD’s Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and posted publicly on 30 November 2016.
This grant stems from legislation requiring federal agencies to reserve a fraction of their research funding for small businesses, as described on the program’s website:
The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program is a United States Government program, coordinated by the Small Business Administration, and currently authorized through September 30, 2017, in which all federal agencies with extramural research budgets in excess of $100 million have a percentage reserved for contracts or grants to small businesses.
In the solicitation for the proposal, the DoD states that the requirements apply only to training rounds and not ammunition used in actual combat. They argue that the frequent use of training rounds been an environmental problem for the Army:
Some of these rounds might have the potential corrode and pollute the soil and nearby water. The solution sought by this topic is naturally occurring biodegradable material to replace the current training round materials, eliminating environmental hazards.
This SBIR effort will make use of seeds to grow environmentally friendly plants that remove soil contaminants and consume the biodegradable components developed under this project. Animals should be able to consume the plants without any ill effects.
Though the DoD has not stated specifics, there are a number of methods by which plants can remove toxins from the ground (a collection of processes known as phytoremediation). The DoD solicitation closes on 8 February 2017.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Alex Kasprak

Featured Image:Jayel Aheram / Flickr
Published:13 January 2017
Staedter, Tracy.   “The US Army Wants Biodegradable Bullets That Sprout Plants.”
    Seaker.   11 January 2017.
Department of Defense.   “Biodegradable Composites with Embedded Seeds for Training Ammunition” DoD 2017.1 SBIR Solicitation.
    30 November 2016.
acq.osd.mil   “About”
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

