Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Hillary Clinton has been rated "most admired woman" by Gallup polls 21 times.					
On 30 December 2016, Daily.Headlines.com published a story reporting that former Secretary of State and presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton had been rated the “most admired woman” in the United States for the 21st time:
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been declared the Most Admired Woman of 2016. Who the hell are they surveying is what I want to know!
According to a newly released Gallup survey, Clinton has topped the list of America’s most admired woman for the 15th year in a row, and the 21st time ever.
While this particular claim is true, DailyHeadlines.com is unreliable; it often publishes stories that typically combine factual and erroneous information.
(For example, on 11 January 2017, the site posted a story which claimed that CNN had published a two-page memo presented to President Barack Obama and President-elect Donald Trump about alleged sensitive information in Russian possession that could compromise Trump. CNN, in fact, did not publish this document.)
According to Gallup, Clinton topped the list in 2016 at 12 percent, with First Lady Michelle Obama taking second place at 8 percent. Obama got the number one spot for “most admired man,” with Trump coming in second. 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:11 January 2017
Daily Headlines. “Hillary Clinton Announced As The Most Admired Woman For 21st Time.”
  30 December 2016.
Gallup. “Most Admired Man and Woman.”
Perez, Evan, et al. “Intel chiefs presented Trump with claims of Russian efforts to compromise him.”
  CNN. Updated 11 January 2017.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

