Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			An animated image shows Meryl Streep mocking a disabled person on a late night talk show.					
Several rumors aimed at discrediting Meryl Streep were circulated in January 2017 shortly after the actress delivered a controversial speech at the Golden Globes in which she criticized President-elect Donald Trump for (among other things) reportedly mocking a disabled reporter. For example, a video was circulated purportedly showing the actress applauding for Roman Polanski (who fled the U.S. to avoid sexual assault charges) at the 2003 Academy Awards (TRUE) and an article was published claiming that she was fired from a major movie project for lying about Donald Trump (FALSE).
On 9 January 2017, radio personality Kayla Vas published an animated image on Twitter purportedly showing Meryl Streep mocking a disabled person on a late night talk show:
#MerylStreep made fun of mentally challenged on late night tv here’s proof her entire speech was a fraud pic.twitter.com/vhjhEJPPsH
— Kayla Vas On Air (@Kayla_Vas) January 9, 2017

The above-displayed image does depict a real moment from a talk show on which Streep appeared, but it had little to do with the mentally challenged.
This clip was taken from a guest appearance by Streep made on The Tonight Show with Conan O’Brien  on 27 July 2009 to promote her movie Julie and Julia. During the interview, O’Brien asked Streep about the movie 1985 movie Out of Africa, and the actress related a story about how a portion of the movie was filmed using real lions. The relevant portion of the interview (starting at around the 6:00 mark of the following video) is transcribed below:
Streep: I did feel pretty safe except on the last day of shooting (director Sydney Pollack) wanted the lions to … they imported all of the lions from California.
Conan: You get a more laid back lions that way.
Streep: You do. They were kind of relaxed. And they were not charging me in the right way. There’s a scene inside of a boma, which is an enclosure for cattle made of thorns and stuff. And the cattle were on one side and then there was me with my whip and this little was just sitting there … because she was chained.
So I’d go (whip sound) and she was supposed to charge me with the camera covering the side so it doesn’t show her leash. And she just wouldn’t do it. So on the last take Sydney told them to take the leash off. Because it was a wrap the next day and if they got the shot. They got the shot.
Act three. (Whip sound). And the lion went (Roar Sound) and I went (scared gesture.)
And Sydney says it didn’t happen. But it did happen.
In short, the animated image supposedly showing Meryl Streep mocking a disabled person actually captures a portion Streep’s appearance on The Tonight Show with Conan O’Brien in which she told (and partially acted out) a story about being scared by a lion on the set of Out of Africa.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
disabled
donald trump
golden globes
+1 more
meryl streep


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Anton_Ivanov / Shutterstock.com
Published:10 January 2017
Updated:10 January 2017

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

