Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Police found more than 30 cow eyeballs in a man's rectum after arresting him for drunk driving.					
On 24 July 2015, the web site Crazed published an article reporting that police in Wyoming had found more than 30 cow eyeballs in a man named Roy Tilbott’s rectum after he was stopped for suspicion of DUI:
Police made a routine traffic stop early Thursday morning and got more than they bargained for when Roy Tilbott, 51, stepped out of his El Camino for a field sobriety test and Casper police noticed several eyeballs slide from his right pant leg onto the road.
Feeling they could have a potential murderer on their hands, police quickly drew guns and cuffed Tilbott.
Tilbott assured police the eyeballs were not human, but instead cow eyeballs he had pilfered from Johnson Meats (a slaughterhouse) where Tilbott is employed as a butcher.
“Company won’t let us take animal scraps home and instead toss them in the landfill,” Tilbott said in the police report. “They’re a very wasteful company. We should be allowed to take scrap meat and other parts home. The company should start a green initiative. They don’t even have recycling at the plant.”

There was no truth to the above-quoted story, which was just another piece of “satire” from a fake news web site. 
There were several telltale signs that this story was fake. First, no other major publication reported the strange story of “Roy Tilbott” and his fetish for cow eyeballs as real news. Second, the photo included in the Crazed article showed a man named James Joe Nordwall (not Roy Tilbott), a serial rapist who was sentenced to 100 years in prison in 2014. 
Finally, Crazed’s disclaimer states that all articles found on the web site are “for entertainment purposes only.” 
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:24 July 2015
Updated:10 March 2017
Crazed.   “Wyoming Man Found with 30 Eyeballs in His Anal Cavity.”
    24 July 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

