Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Wheaties cereal sticks to magnets because it has metal flakes.							See Example( s )

In January 2014, alternative health and conspiracy web site NaturalNews.com posted a video showing Wheaties cereal flakes sticking to a magnet. The site claimed that this was irrefutable proof that the cereal is “full of metal fragments.”
The video, created by “The Health Ranger” Mike Adams, was created to give the impression that the flakes were hidden in the cereal by a ne’er-do-well corporation:
Wheaties breakfast cereal, manufactured by General Mills, has been found to contain so many microscopic fragments of metal that individual flakes can be lifted and carried using common magnets, a Natural News Forensic Food Lab investigation has found and documented.

However, the experiment performed by Adams is not new, nor is it limited to Wheaties. A spokesman for General Mills (which manufactures Wheaties) told us that the reaction is caused by iron fortification in the cereal and is not a cause for alarm:
We see this science experiment done pretty frequently with any iron fortified cereal – it makes for a cool video!  Iron is really important for your body to function well, and your body only absorbs as much as it needs.
Indeed, in 2011, Scientific American posted instructions on how to perform the experiment with any iron-fortified breakfast cereal:
What does your breakfast cereal have in common with Earth’s crust? They both have some of the same materials in them. It might seem strange to compare a bowl of cornflakes to a pile of dirt. But science can help us find one of the most common elements on Earth in your cereal: iron.
Even though iron only makes up less than 5 percent of the mass on Earth, it is found in a lot of places: rocks, cereal—and even in your blood! It’s also the most frequently used metal on the planet; it makes up most of steel, which is a mixture of iron and other ingredients.
A quick review of searches for “breakfast cereal magnet experiment” shows that it is a popular children’s experiment.
Here, a similar experiment is successfully demonstrated with Total breakfast cereal:

We found no evidence suggesting that the iron contained in breakfast cereals that sticks to magnets in these types of experiments is any cause for alarm or harmful to health. Iron deficiency is a common health problem, and fortifying grain, flour and infant formula is a common practice in many countries, including the United States and Canada.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:6 January 2017
Adams, Mike. “Wheaties cereal found to contain so many metal fragments that they can be levitated with magnets.”
  Natural News. 23 January 2014.
Harmon, Katherine. “Get the Iron out–of Your Breakfast Cereal.”
  Scientific American. 20 May 2011.
National Institutes of Health. “Iron dietary supplement fact sheet.”
Miller, Jeffrey. “Iron Deficiency Anemia: A Common and Curable Disease.”
  Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press. 3 July 2013.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

