Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Donald Trump said that America's economy crashing would lead to riots demanding we make the country great again.							See Example( s )

After Donald Trump claimed victory in the 8 November 2016 U.S. presidential election, some critics who were unhappy with that outcome began circulating a quote attributed to Trump that, taken out of context, seemed rather apocalyptic:
“You know what solves it?” Trump said of America’s alleged troubles during a 2014 interview. “When the economy crashes, when the country goes to total hell and everything is a disaster. Then you’ll have a [chuckles], you know, you’ll have riots to go back to where we used to be when we were great.”
Donald Trump did make this comment, but he said it in February 2014, well before he announced that he be would running for president in the 2016 election. He made the statement in passing while he was a phone-in guest on a Fox News Channel talk show, as can be heard around at the two-minute mark in the following video:
Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.comSome web sites have characterized Trump’s words to mean that he believed riots and economic chaos could solve the country’s woes:
In February 2014, Donald Trump joined Fox News to rail against the Obama Administration, including the Affordable Care Act and its economic approach. There was little of substance to support his sweeping remarks. However, given that a President Trump will be taking office in January, his suggested remedy (at the 2:02 mark) stands out.
Instead, it seems Trump was referencing the idea that the Affordable Care Act and other social programs allowed people to “live very nicely” without working, and his apparent belief that such a circumstance was highly deleterious to the economy. In any case, it was a hypothetical statement, not a suggestion that enacting a policy of deliberately crashing the U.S. economy would bring about a positive outcome.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Featured Image:Evan El-Amin / Shutterstock.com
Published:6 January 2017
Lucas, Scott.   “US Video: Trump’s 2014 Solution — ‘Riots to Go Back to When We Were Great.'”
EA Worldview.   19 November 2016.
Del Signore, John.   “Stay Tuned for Trump’s Dystopian Reality Show ‘American Kakistocracy'”
Gothamist.   17 November 2016.
Coppins, McKay. “36 Hours on the Fake Campaign Trail With Donald Trump.”
BuzzFeed News. 13 February 2014.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

