Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A 12-year-old girl livestreamed her suicide by hanging.					
A disturbing video that has gone viral and apparently shows a young girl hanging herself has turned into a criminal investigation by police. While we made numerous unsuccessful attempts to reach Polk County police in an effort to verify the video, Chief Kenny Dodd told local reporters the video is authentic. Dodd told Fox5:
I’m just shocked that a child that young would not only think to end her life in that manner but would also think to put it live on a livestream.

Dodd told reporters that police are powerless to remove the video from the Internet. Authorities also told a local newspaper they were investigating claims that the child, identified as Katelyn Nichole Davis, 12, of Polk County, Georgia, had written about physical and sexual abuse days before her death:
The girl, who died of self-inflicted wounds on Dec. 30, streamed her death online, Polk County Police Chief Kenny Dodd said. It has since been posted and reposted on various sites across the internet.
Investigators are looking into allegations of abuse and attempted rape the girl posted in an online diary on Dec. 27, Dodd said.
In an online blog linked to Davis, she talks about depression but also about being physically and psychologically abused by a male family member who she says attempted to rape her.
The Polk County Standard Journal reported Davis’ body was found on 30 December 2016 with “self-inflicted wounds” outside her home. She was taken to a nearby hospital, where emergency department staff were unable to revive her. An obituary for the girl says she is survived by her parents, sister and brother. A funeral service will be held on 6 January 2017.
In the video connected to the incident, Davis could be seen setting up a camera, then making a noose and tying it to a tree before tearfully apologizing to a number of people and talking about feeling inadequate and unable to deal with depression. The video (which has since been removed from YouTube) appeared to show her hanging for a number of hours as the sunlight faded. It is unclear how many people were watching her stream, and whether any of them called for help.
Polk County Police Det. Kristen Hearn told the Standard Journal that investigators were working on obtaining search warrants for Davis’ phone, Facebook account and a third, unnamed social media site.
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-8255
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Bethania Palma

Published:5 January 2017
Updated:12 January 2017
Myrick, Kevin.   “Police Investigate Reports That Polk County Girl Live Streamed Video of Her Death.”
   [Polk County] Standard Journal.   2 January 2017.
Myrick, Kevin. “Polk County police investigating claims made by 12-year-old girl before she live streamed suicide.”
  Northwest Georgia News. 11 January 2017.
Dukes, Deidra. “Girl’s ‘suicide video’ sparks outrage online.”
  Fox5. 11 January 2017.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

