Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			The Washington Post's free daily newspaper used a male gender symbol to illustrate a cover story about women's rights.							See Example( s )

On 5 January 2017, an image purportedly showing the cover of Express, a free daily newspaper produced by the Washington Post, was widely circulated on social media. The image showed a group of women forming the shape of the male gender symbol, despite the fact that the cover story was about a women’s rights march planned for the day after President-elect Donald Trump’s inauguration:
The image was widely circulated by viewers poking fun at Express for their mistake, but the glaring and seemingly obvious error caused some to wonder if the purported cover image was real.
The graphic reproduced above does show a real cover produced for the Express story on a women’s rights march. It was marketed as a “Print Edition” by the Washington Post was reportedly passed out to commuters in Washington, D.C., and was made available as a PDF download:
Shortly after the image went viral, the Express issued an apology via Twitter and shared a new version of the cover featuring a group of women standing in the shape of the female gender symbol:
This is how the cover should have looked. We apologize for the mistake. pic.twitter.com/MKKOkHPV8T
— Express (@WaPoExpress) January 5, 2017

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
express
gender
inauguration march
+2 more
woman's march
women's march


Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:Shutterstock.com
Published:5 January 2017
Parker, Ryan.   “Washington Post Express Puts Male Symbol on Women’s Inauguration March Cover.”
    Hollywood Reporter.   5 January 2017.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

