Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A Navy officer was arrested for "abuse of public animal" and "drunken or reckless driving" after he used a raccoon to bypass an ignition interlock system.					
In September 2015, an image purportedly showing a police record recounting a strange story involving a Navy officer, a raccoon, and a car breathalyzer began circulating via social media:
Although this image was circulated online as a genuine police report (and even picked up by several news outlets, it originated on the “Just the tip, of the spear 26 — The Reckoning” (JTTTOS) Facebook page, which labels itself as “just for fun”:
“JTTOTS is about veterans and active duty military having a place to be themselves. You know act like dicks and look at boobs and cats and stuff.”
That Facebook group is not really a credible source of factual information, but they do document stupid things (supposedly) done by military personnel. In fact, the words encircling the Illuminati-like symbol embedded into this police report read “JTTOTS Always Watching,” a nod at the group’s main objective. So if a member of the Navy really did use a raccoon to pass a breathalyzer test, he JTTOTS Facebook page might have been one of the first places to pick it up.
However, JTTOTS was the only source for this story. We found no record of raccoon-related DUI’s at Camp Pendleton, nor could we locate a version of the police report that lacked the JTTOTS symbol. Furthermore, Lt. Savannah Frank, a public affairs officer at Camp Pendleton, reported that the story was a hoax:
Asked if it was fact or fiction, 1st. Lt. Savannah Frank, a public affairs officer at Camp Pendleton, checked and replied: “I called police records, and while they were highly entertained, they confirmed (the story) is absolutely a hoax.”
Frank said the official incident number featured in the post was a giveaway, since Camp Pendleton police records use a different system.
One might also ponder the improbability of a raccoon’s allowing itself to be captured and squeezed to the point of unconsciousness without putting up any resistance, biding its time and attacking its abductor only after those events had been completed and it had regained consciousness.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Featured Image:dangdumrong / Shutterstock.com
Published:1 October 2015
Updated:3 January 2018
Mallory, Tom.   “Sailor DID NOT Use Raccoon to Bypass Breathalyzer.”
    San Diego Union Tribune.   30 September 2015.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

