Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Burglars returned stolen computers to a group helping rape survivors after realizing whom they'd robbed.							See Example( s )

A popular image macro circulating online that depicts a show of remorse from unidentified burglars has a basis in truth.
Many versions of the macro show a handwritten note burglars apparently left by for the staff of San Bernardino Sexual Assault Services, just hours after they broke into that organization’s facility on 31 July 2013. The note read:
We had no idea what we were takeing. Here [sic] your stuff back we hope that you guys can continue to make a difference in peoples live. God Bless.
The burglars had stolen six computer towers and a laptop from the non-profit, which provides counseling and advocacy assistance for survivors of both domestic violence and sexual assault. The burglars also caused about $5,000 in damages to the group’s office.
The twist in the story led to widespread news coverage of it, as well as directing national attention at the non-profit group. As executive director Candy Stallings said at the time:
Victims are calling from all over the place, wanting to talk. The note is bringing a lot of people to our services that needed our services all along.
The group subsequently created an online fundraising campaign, which to date has garnered $12,263 in donations.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Onsizzle.com
Published:29 December 2016
Avila, Willian. “Burglars return stolen computers to nonprofit — along with apology note.” NBC News. 8 August 2013.
Perez-Segnini, Natalia. “Burglars return stolen computers to nonprofit, leave apology note.” CNN. 10 August 2013.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

