Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			A photograph shows a young Carrie Fisher watching her mother Debbie Reynolds perform onstage.					
A photograph purportedly showing actress Carrie Fisher watching her mother Debbie Reynolds perform on stage while she was a child was widely circulated after their deaths one day apart in late December 2016:
Since this image was frequently shared without context (such as when and where the was photograph taken, and by whom), some were initially skeptical of its authenticity.  
However, the photograph is authentic.  It was taken in 1963 by Lawrence Schiller, who photographed screen and stage stars in the 1960s, and went on to have a long career as a director and producer. The photograph shows six-year-old Carrie Fisher watching her mother perform at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas:
As Ms. Reynolds took the stage, someone who was watching over Ms. Fisher brought a stool to the wing. Ms. Fisher clambered up on top of it “all by herself,” he said, and sat through the entire performance.
Ms. Reynolds began performing a “singing-dancing act” at the Riviera in the early 1960s. By 1966, she would regularly perform seven nights a week at the venue over the course of a month and a half, according to a Los Angeles Times article from that year.
“You’re waiting for the moment in which something you’ve seen is illustrated,” Mr. Schiller said. “And then you don’t even stop and think. The image is there and your camera is like a sponge to absorb the moment.”
Schiller photographed several stars of the stage and screen in the 1960s, including Marilyn Monroe, Clint Eastwood, and Paul Newman.  He told the New York Times that the mother and daughter shared a particularly close bond:
Her daughter was really mesmerized by her mother always. That’s what really stood out.
He said that this particular image best captured the heart of their relationship.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Dan Evon

Published:29 December 2016
Updated:29 December 2016
Bromwich, Jonah.   “The Story Behind a Well-Timed Photo of Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher.”
    New York Times.   29 December 2016.
Petit, Stephanie.   “The Truth Behind That Amazing Photo of Carrie Fisher Watching Mom Debbie Reynolds on Stage: ‘She Was Mesmerized.'”
    People Magazine.   29 December 2016.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

