Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Amazon is taking part in a collection effort for Goodwill.							See Example( s )

While shoppers should always be aware of the prevalence of scams (particularly during the holiday season), a new partnership involving Amazon.com is legitimate.
Give Back Box founder Monika Wiela told us that the online retailer is now taking part in her company’s program, through which Amazon buyers can reuse boxes for sending donations to Goodwill Industries locations in their area.
Give Back Box’s web site allows buyers to create and print their own labels, which can be dropped off at United Parcel Service or United States Post Office locations to be shipped at no charge. The company also states that donors can arrange to have their packages picked up at home, and that they can get a receipt for their donations that they can use for tax purposes.
Amazon is not the only shopping website partnering with Wiela’s company. Give Back Box has similar relationships with other retailers like Overstock.com and Levis, among others. Wiela said that more than 200,000 boxes have been sent out through the program over the course of the past year.
In the strictest terms, Amazon and Goodwill are not partners. However, the online retailer is part of a relationship allowing buyers to give items to the latter company and get a tax benefit in the process.
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.

Fact Checker:
Arturo Garcia

Featured Image:Hadrian/Shutterstock
Published:27 December 2016

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

