Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			CNN was caught using photographs of the same girl to represent three different refugee crises.					
In December 2016, an image comprising photographs of a little girl being carried by three separate rescue workers began circulating on social media, along with text asserting it documented that CNN had been caught using images of the same girl to illustrate three separate reports of refugee crises in different areas — and, incredibly, she was garbed in the very same outfit each time:

The caption suggested that a major news network (CNN) had falsified their reporting with phony images in order to exaggerate the human toll of violence in three different (unidentified) areas. But simple reverse image searches revealed this rumor to be just more nonsense in the vein of conspiratorial “crisis actor” claims.
The middle photograph in the trio was easy to locate, with dozens of results returned via image searching:
According to a contemporaneous report from NBC News, this photograph was taken in the aftermath of the bombing of a funeral in Aleppo, Syria, in August 2016. 
A related search for the right-hand image revealed that it indeed depicted the same girl, being carried by a rescuer after the same 27 August 2016 bombing in Aleppo:
The left-hand image was cropped for the “same refugee girl” meme, but it was also a widely published photograph taken immediately after the August 2016 Aleppo funeral bombing. The original photograph depicted a rescuer carrying the girl along with several other children at the site of the attack:
A separate photograph not included above captured the same girl sitting in the back of a van after the Aleppo funeral  bombing:
So, rather than presenting three images of the same girl (in the same clothing) supposedly being carried by rescuers after three different “refugee crises” in separate times and places, this triptych simply captures one girl being passed around from one rescuer, caretaker, or family member to another in the same disaster zone as part of humanitarian efforts undertaken after the same single bombing event in Syria that left 16 people dead.   We found no evidence that CNN ever used any of these photographs to represent anything other than that one event.

Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
aleppo
conspiracy theories
crisis actors
+4 more
false flag
refugee conspiracy theory
Syria
syrian refugees


Fact Checker:
Kim LaCapria

Published:26 December 2016
Dearden, Lizzie.   “Syrian War: At Least 15 Civilians Killed as Barrel Bombs Hit Funeral …”
    The Independent.   27 August 2016.
McKirdy, Euan and Bijan Hosseini.   “Syria Barrel Bomb Attack: At Least 16 Killed at Wake in Aleppo.”
    CNN.   28 August 2016.
Vinograd, Cassandra.   “Aleppo Funeral Is Bombed, Leaving at Least 16 Dead: Syrian Activists.”
    CNN.   28 August 2016.
Arab Times.   “Barrel Bombs Kill at Least 15 Civilians in Aleppo: Monitor.”
    28 August 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

