Sign up for the Snopes.com newsletter and get daily updates on all the best rumors, news and legends delivered straight to your inbox.
Know of a rumor you want investigated? Press related inquiry? Lonely and just want to chat?

Select from one of these options to get in touch with us:

			Former Trump campaign official Carl Paladino said he hopes President Obama dies of mad cow disease and First Lady Michelle Obama goes to live in a cave in Africa with a gorilla.							See Example( s )

On 23 December 2016, the New York arts and entertainment magazine Artvoice published a year-end feature consisting of four questions asked of prominent New Yorkers about their hopes for the coming year, with their responses. One of the respondents was Carl Paladino, described in the piece as a “developer, school board member, political activist,” who also happens to be the former New York co-chairman of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.
Of the four answers Paladino gave, two were non-controversial (to non-New Yorkers, at any rate), but the remaining pair set off a social media firestorm, for reasons that are presumably self-evident:
What would you most like to happen in 2017?
Obama catches mad cow disease after being caught having relations with a Herford.  He dies before his trial and is buried in a cow pasture next to Valerie Jarret, who died weeks prior, after being convicted of sedition and treason, when a Jihady cell mate mistook her for being a nice person and decapitated her.
What would you like to see go away in 2017?
Michelle Obama.  I’d like her to return to being a male and let loose in the outback of Zimbabwe where she lives comfortably in a cave with Maxie, the gorilla.
Paladino’s comments were quickly condemned as racist, incendiary, and divisive by, among others, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo:
Carl Paladino made racist, ugly, reprehensible remarks about the President & First Lady. My wish this season is for unity.
Full statement pic.twitter.com/ZHgsrHmHbp
— Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) December 23, 2016
For his part, Paladino didn’t back down from or apologize for the remarks.  To the contrary, in a statement to Artvoice he denied any racist import and doubled down on his disparagement of the Obamas and White House aide Valerie Jarrett:
This is in response to my comments published in Artvoice.
It has nothing to do with race.  That’s the typical stance of the press when they can’t otherwise defend the acts of the person being attacked.
It’s about two progressive elitist ingrates who have hated their country so badly and destroyed its fabric in so many respects in 8 years.
It’s about them diminishing the respect for their country on the world scene, surrendering its status as the protector of human rights, disgracing the memory of its veterans who gave so much.
It’s about demeaning and weakening what was the most powerful military in the world, firing hundreds of good soldier Generals and Admirals who refused Barack’s illegal and irresponsible dictates.
Michelle hated America before her husband won.  She then enjoyed all the attention, the multi -million dollar vacations, the huge staff and other benefits.  Then when Hillary lost, she and Barack realized that without Hillary, there was no one to protect the little, if any, legacy he had.  That’s when Michelle came out and said there is no hope for America.  Good, let her leave and go someplace she will be happy.
As for Barack, he’s a yellow-bellied coward who left thousands to die in Syria and especially Aleppo and he gets on TV and says he feels bad he couldn’t do anything about it.
Paladino’s full statement, which can be read here, ends on a defiantly unapologetic note. “And yes,” he writes, “it’s about a little deprecating humor which America lost for a long time. Merry Christmas and tough luck if you don’t like my answer.”
President-elect Trump’s transition team issued a statement later the same day saying Paladino’s comments were “absolutely reprehensible” and “serve no place in our public discourse,”
Got a tip or a rumor? Contact us here.
Filed Under:
barack obama
carl paladino
donald trump
+2 more
michelle obama
racism


Fact Checker:
David Emery

Featured Image:FLICKR
Published:23 December 2016
Lankes, Tiffany.   “Paladino Stirs Outrage Over New Comments About Obama.”
   The Buffalo News.   23 December 2016.
Moses, Jamie.   “What Do We Want for 2017?”
   Artvoice.   23 December 2016.
Paladino, Carl.   “Paladino to Media: My Comments in Artvoice Were Not Racist; ‘Tough Luck If You Don’t Like My Answer.'”
   Artvoice.   23 December 2016.
Ask. Chat. Poke.

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

29 November 2017
								Users of the iPhones running iOS 11 can make use of the feature but should take some precautions.			

8 February 2018
								Much ado was made on social media about the President's hair after a video aired of his boarding Air Force One on a windy day.			

Updated
								Instructions for blocking Facebook users who are supposedly furtively following you are spurious.			

24 May 2016
								Inaccurate warnings about an imminent ban on smoking in vehicles when minors are present have been circulating online since 2016.			

6 February 2018
								Facebook hasn't limited your feed to only a certain number of people, and sharing a post saying otherwise won't make any difference.			

20 January 2018
								The unprecedented finger-pointing took place amid a government shutdown and looming government worker furloughs.			

Updated
								Rumors that service station customers are getting stuck by HIV-loaded syringes affixed to gas pump handles are a hoax.			

23 January 2018
								Charles and Elizabeth Koch gave nearly half a million dollars to the House Speaker's fundraising committee after passage of the Republican tax bill.			

5 November 2017
								Reports that the perpetrator carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers “this is a communist revolution” are fake news.			

We are experiencing some issues with our feedback form. To reach us in the interim, please email contact@teamsnopes.com.


We are experiencing some issues with our forms. Our development team is working on a solution.

